HEADER How to manage a guild

Interaction between mortals and wizards is specially sensitive where
the mortal is a guild member and the wizard is the guild master of the
guild. This requires that guild masters take extraordinary care so
they do not get involved into the affairs of the mortals too much.

Since in many cases close cooperation is necessary to improve the
guild and since the guild master can add and remove features,
especially powers to the guild and thus to its members, the
interaction and interdependence between mortals and wizards is closer
than anywhere else. In addition, for role playing reasons it can be of
advantage if the guild master interacts with the members of his or her
guild within the role playing context, thus adding an emotional (role
playing) relation to the functional one.

It is the responsibility of the guild master and the responsible Lord
or Lady to set up the guild structure and the role playing background
in such a way that the guild does not rely on any specific wizard to
operate. In short, the guild master must be replaceable without much
problems. Also, the guild must be able to operate without the need
for a wizard to perform tasks.

To achieve this it will in general be necessary that the guild master
does not assume a role of supreme command, but of someone who just
announces the decisions of a higher authority, in most cases some kind
of deity or other abstract leader. This leader/deity/authority should
not be an interactive player/wizard. In general, it will also be
detrimental to this purpose if the guild master or any other
interactive player is named in any documents available to the members
on the background of the guild.

? Does this mean that the mortals actually run the guild with no
  possibility for the GM or liege to affect the course they take in
  doing so?

* Correct. As long as they aren't breaking any rules with regard to
  playing the game and then become subject for discipline by the AoP,
  they are indeed running the guild themselves. Obviously the guild
  code will make them behave in certain ways, but direct involvement
  by the GM or liege is not allowed.

  This in turn means that changes in the code has to be done so that
  no one member of the guild is singled out. Changing guild behaviour
  on a wider plane often is ok, provided that those changes fill a
  greater purpose.  Changing code for the specific purpose of forcing
  council members to alter their way of running the guild is not
  permissible.

? What then if the council decides to run the guild in a way never
  intended by the domain which in fact is responsible for the code?

* Well, this really is their privilege. In extreme cases the AoD or
  AoP might decide that what they are doing is bad for the game as a
  whole and choose to interfere, but otherwise this is just to be
  accepted.

? Are the guilds to be regarded as in "maintenance only" status then,
  with no options open for altering them? After all it's often the
  case that a new liege in a domain never even were playing the game
  when the domain (with guilds) was created. Suppose he'd like to
  change the direction of a guild in a more profound way?

* Well, this is a tricky problem. Great consideration must be given to
  the mortals who right now are members of the guild. Small changes
  with regard to balance or general updating are always permissible of
  course, but more profound changes simply has to be discussed with
  the AoD in detail since this actually amounts to the same thing as
  closing down the guild and opening a new one. This doesn't mean that
  it's impossible, just that it's something one shouldn't consider
  doing without putting much thought into the consequences for the
  current members of the guild.

