HEADER Available guild types

Guilds are built on this idea: A living character has an ethnic
background that he has common with other characters in his
neighbourhood. He has chosen a profession in which he specialises. He
also has an amateuristic interest in which he has some skill. Besides
this he is a member of some local clubs and organisations.

Guilds are divided in to 'major' and 'minor' guilds. Major guilds are
powerful guilds that give considerable advantage to its members. Minor
guilds are very little more than 'secret societies' and 'clubs' that
only add to the feeling of the game. A player can be a member of as
many minor guilds as he likes. Open guilds are also possible. They are
described below in the paragraph 'adventurers guilds'.

There are four types of major guilds:

Occupational:

  The occupational guild defines the profession on the player. As this
  is an adventure oriented game, this is taken to an occupation which
  provides some kind of tactical advantage in the game.  Currently an
  occupational guild has to be of one of the following professions
  (guild styles): 'fighter', 'magic', 'cleric', 'thief' and 'ranger'.
  Other guild styles can be added if there exists a good reason, but
  guild styles not mentioned in this document are illegal.

Layman:

  The layman guild is the 'every man' version of the occupational
  guild. A fighter that wants to learn the basics of magic will
  typically enrol here. An occupational guild will typically have a
  layman branch as well where members of other occupational guilds can
  become members. Naturally the level of skill proficiency in the
  layman guild is quite lower than in the occupational guild. Like the
  occupational guilds, a layman guild has to be of one of the guild
  styles mentioned above. This type of guild also covers guilds that
  can't conveniently be categorised as 'race' or 'occupational'.

Craft:

  The craft guild gives further depth and definition of a character
  by providing the more ordinary professional background of a player.
  This guild will cover such professions (styles) as thatcher, smith,
  cobbler, joiner etc. The skills learnt here may not be of immediate
  tactical advantage. It does assist in providing an alternative to
  game play than combat. At the moment there's no definite list of
  acceptable types. The AoB will have to make judgement from case to
  case here.

  The guild thus may provide abilities that makes it possible to
  actually substitute for an occupational guild provided that they
  give no combat ability or aid. The theme of the guild should be
  sufficient to make it possible to have it serve as the player's
  profession. The guild could thus provide abilities to create objects
  or provide services which has value in the game.

Race:

  The race guilds supplies the player with a background and a place of
  origin. The main features of a race guild should be race-specific
  emotes of different kinds. The race guild might also offer one small
  extra ability or skill, for example limited 'night vision' for
  elves. Since race guilds don't train a profession, their style is
  always 'race'.
