Rhovanion is the part of Middle Earth east of the Misty
Mountains and north of Rohan and Mordor.
It includes the eastern flanks of the Misty Mountains with
the goblin cave mentioned in 'The Hobbit', the valley of
Anduin from it's source to Lorien, the Eyrie of the Eagles,
the house of Beorn, the Mirkwood with the Halls of the
Elvenking Thranduil, the spiders of Mirkwood, Dol Goldur,
and villages of the Woodmen. East of Mirkwood, the Lake
Esgaroth and the Lake Town, the Lonely Mountain where the
King under the Mountain resides, the Iron Hills, and the
Great Plains extending to the Sea of Rhun are parts of
the domain. I also intend to make at least a racial guild,
dwarves, and possible others as the area is a good place
for racial-guilds, elven at Thranduil'sCaverns, dwarven at
Erebor.

This short description of the domain shows the great
capabilities Rhovanion offers to wizards, to the devoted
Tolkien afficionado and the coder, that wants to let his
or her own fantasy roam wild without being constrained
to a literary prototype, alike.
Many of the areas mentioned above are only mentioned in
passing by Tolkien, so there are almost no limits to
creating new exiting places.
Dol Guldur, the Eastern Plains, and Mirkwood offer
fantastic locations for evil monsters and barbaric
tribes.
The Iron Mountains and the Lonely Mountain both are
ideal locations for dwarven areas, second not even to
Moria!
The Woodmen and the Lake Town are for those who prefer
to code human habitations.
And of course, the northern Mirkwood is the Kingdom of
Thranduil, father of Legolas, King of the Woodelves.

Projects on the way:
Thranduil's Caverns		- Daneel
Mirkwood (basic file)		- Hazelnut
Esgaroth
Erebor				- Gede after Beyonder (we think)
Dol Guldur			- Hazelnut
Special areas in Mirkwood	- Tenghil and Vidur
Iron Mountains
River Celduin
Valley of Anduin
Woodmen
Beorn's home
Eagles eyrie
Misty Mountains			- Milan
Goblin Caves			- Milan

Projects wanted (other might have interest too, inquire.):
	Old Path (the one Thorin and Co. followed)
	Iron Mountains
	River Celduin, downward Sea of Rhun
	Valley of Anduin
	Woodmen
	Beorn's home
	Eagles eyrie
	Misty Mountains

Randor, Beyonder, Vidur, Milan, Ilin, Hazelnut, Gede and Tenghil.


