This is Genesis game rules in regard to players
-----------------------------------------------

As a player in the is game you are really only expected to have fun, that's
the only thing we want with the game. However, as in any (decent) society
you can't be allowed to have fun at other peoples expense. This is in fact
the only rule you must follow. However, as it's a bit vague, let's try to
make things a bit more clear:

Offenses that forces us to take immediate action of some kind
-------------------------------------------------------------

Quest runthroughs	- You are not allowed to spoil quests by leading
			  people around by their hands. You can not do the
			  'thinking' part of the quest for otehrs. Hints when
			  someone  who has become stuck comes and asks you
			  for help is ok, but not outright spoilers.

Multiple users          - One character, one user. Don't share your character
                          with someone else, all that's going to happen is
                          that one of you will do something silly and try to 
                          blame the other. '*wail* It wasn't I who did that, 
                          it was someone else! *baah*' Well, we don't buy 
                          that kind of excuse, in fact we might remove your 
                          character just to make sure it won't happen again. 
                          For those who want a definition of sharing a 
                          character, it means that control of the character 
                          has passed from one user to another, for any length 
                          of time.

Harassment		- If all you can think of as having fun is preventing
			  others from having it, then you don't belong here.
			  Roleplaying is ok, but remember that there's such
			  a thing as common sense and knowing when enough is
			  enough as well!

			  Sexual harassment is something we are particularly
			  unforgiving about. There's very few occations were
			  comments or actions related to sexual harassment
			  can be defended as 'roleplaying'. So rather than
			  end up in a situation where we will throw you out,
			  please stick to other modes of expression. True,
			  your character might be one that has that attitude,
			  but in that case we feel we can do without him.

Double login		- You can have several characters, that's ok, but
			  ONLY ONE logged on at a time. Depending on how
			  certain we are that we're right about this, we'll
			  either warn you not to do it any more or simply
			  remove both of the characters we suspect is one
			  user. Making a second character to act as a gofer
			  for your primary one (get things in the game, post
			  notes for him etc) is abuse of the privilige of
			  character creation and will be treated as such.

Taking advantage of	- If you find something that obviously is a bug
bugs in the game	  or that you suspect is a bug, you report it. If
			  you try to exploit it, we will find out about it
			  sooner or later and then we'll try to set the
			  score right again. If it's uncertain exactly how
			  much we should adjust we'll simply get rid of you.

Cheating in general	- Well... hard to define perhaps, all of the above
			  really is different kinds of cheating. However,
			  if you search your soul we're sure you'll know what
			  is right and what isn't. Common sense can usually
			  be applied with good results to any situation.
			  If in doubt, talk to the player arch or someone
			  more experienced in the game.

Recruitment,		- If you're trying to recruit players here to another
advertising & suchlike.	  game you're obviously not interested in playing
			  here either, so we'll just get rid of you. Post
			  on internet news instead, there's newsgroups there
			  for that very purpose. Neither are you allowed to
			  try and make use of the game for the advertising
			  of products or services. (Actually this is a very
			  silly rule, but there's some even sillier people
			  who insists on making a nuisance of themselves
			  forcing us to add it).

Consequences of the above:
--------------------------

Well, this really is different depending on the situation and who is
involved. In clear-cut cases we'll simply remove the offending player if
the offense is regarded as severe enough. If the question of guilt is
harder to pinpoint or the offense less, a warning or reduction of the
player status might suffice. In severe cases where the player is a known
troublemaker from a known trouble site, we might even block the entire site
from further playing here rather than face possible future reprisals or
re-occuring events of the same kind.

We don't enjoy doing this, it's the flip side of trying to run a game that
is enjoyable for all. Just remember that it won't stop us from taking
decisive action if we have to. Be fair and honest, it usually works best in
the long run.

General behaviour in the game
-----------------------------

This is a game where you are supposedly impersonating a fantasy character
of one kind or another. You have been allowed to freely choose race, gender
and your general description. The game is designed as much as possible to
support your characterisation with guilds and equipment. Please try to take
advantage of this and play your character as well as you can.

The wizards are supposed not to interfere and not to provide 'out of
character' data (the are demoted from wizhood if they do), information like
numerical stats, quest info or numerical info about equipment. However,
_if_ they do_... well, we don't expect you to turn them in but do keep the
info to yourself. Don't walk around telling it to people since it'll only
make us mad and force us to investigate and possibly punish someone.

An extra comment in regard to player killing
--------------------------------------------

Since this is a current topic at all times it warrants a bit of an
elaboration here. Player killing is allowed in Genesis. This means that
when a player (any player) gets upset with another player (any other
player) he can attack him with intent to kill. No limits.

HOWEVER... if the attacker ...

 o	Attacks significantly weaker players all the time, or often

 o	Attacks the same player all the time, or often

 o	Entices others to attack a certain player

... or elaborations on this theme, this is naturally harassment, see
the special paragraph above about this.

The above does NOT mean you cannot ask others to help
you in your quest for revenge.  
