
Robot Behaviour:
================

  Automation designed for UNATTENDED control of the character is unwelcome in 
  Genesis. This being said, not all types of botting are bad for the game.
  Here, therefore, are specifics on various types of botting and the 
  consequences.

  IDLE-BOTTING: Idle-botting occurs when a player uses timed automated
                commands to prevent them from being logged out. Idle-
                botting is ONLY illegal if the player is carrying items
                (wielded/worn or otherwise) that other players might want
                to use. We do not allow living droprooms! (In other
                words, if you want to stay logged on without holding a
                bunch of useful stuff other players might want to use,
                go right ahead.)

      1st offense: Items you are carrying are destroyed.
      2nd offense: 1 week suspension from Genesis (and items destroyed)
      Beyond this: Suspension or deletion as needed.

  FORGE-BOTTING: Forge-botting occurs when a player uses triggers to
                 continually forge without stopping, thus generating
                 large amounts of items that can be sold for money, and
                 increasing their smith skills.

      1st offense: All forged items destroyed.
      2nd offense: Removal of all smith skills, removal of smith guildstat,
                   forged items destroyed
      Beyond this: Suspension or deletion as needed.

  HERB-BOTTING: Herb-botting is much like forge-botting, but occurs when
                a robot is set up to scour large areas of Genesis for
                herbs, resulting in huge herb stores and general experience.

      1st offense: All herbs destroyed.
      2nd offense: Death, skill loss (and all herbs destroyed)
      Beyond this: Suspension or deletion as needed.

  COMBAT-BOTTING: Combat-botting is the robot style that is the most harmful
                  to the game. It occurs when a player sets up client
                  triggers which allow the character to fight endlessly
                  gaining massive experience. Most often this occurs in
                  a team (who can protect and guide the bot) but it can
                  also be set up for solo play.

      1st offense: Death, and destruction of items you are carrying.
      2nd offense: Death, destruction, and one week suspension.
      Beyond this: Suspension or deletion as needed (plus death, of course)

  Be warned, methods have been devised to test for bots, and the
  administration plans to pursue these types of cheaters very aggressively.

  Also, remember, triggers are not illegal! The above types of scenarios
  are only illegal if the bots are unattended. If you are actively
  watching the screen (in other words, playing the game) script without
  fear!

