/*
 *
 * This file is /d/Gondor/open/new_wiz.
 *
 * An Introduction to the domain Gondor
 *
 * Comments, suggestions, criticism to Olorin, please.
 *
 * Created:  20-Jan-1994
 * Author:   Olorin
 * Version:  0.4
 * Last Mod: 13-feb-1997 by Olorin
 *
 * Modification Log:
 * - 25-Jan-1994 by Olorin:
 *   added reference to /d/Gondor/common/domain_entr.c
 *   added reference to /d/Gondor/state-of-Gondor
 * - 12-dec-1994 by Olorin:
 *   added boards for obligatory and recommended reading
 * - 11-aug-1995 by Olorin:
 *   modified for Mordor
 * - 13-feb-1997 by Olorin:
 *   Modified for Gondor.
 * - 15-feb-1997 by Olorin:
 *   Added 1.8 Email.
 * - 12-aug-1997 by Olorin:
 *   Added paragraph on herbs.
 * - 12-sep-1998 by Gnadnar:
 *   add url of lpc tutorial, update list of boards, tidy up.
 */


0.	Introduction:

This file is for wizards of the domain Gondor.
If you are new to the domain, reading this file should be one of the first
things you do.


0.1	This file:

This file is rather long, and is full of rules, talk of demotion, and
other unpleasant topics. Nevertheless, in spite of all this is not
meant to intimidate you, but to help you find your way around in
Genesis and Gondor. 

It was put together drawing on the experience of helping other wizards
into the domain Gondor, with valuable contributions from these
wizards. You, too, are invited to comment on this file, to assist us
improving it. 

Since we in Gondor are closely working together with the other Middle
Earth domains, most of what is said here about the domain Gondor and
its wizards is also valid for the other Middle Earth domains. 

If you in the course of the next weeks come to a point where you tell
yourself, 'This is stupid, they should have *told* me!', talk to me
and suggest including a corresponding paragraph into this file. 
(Perhaps you should check first if it is already included, and if it
is, you might prefer not to tell me that you did not read this file
properly. ;-)) 


0.2	Asking for help:

Most wizards, and all wizards in Gondor will help you if you have
questions or problems. It is preferable to ask a Gondor wizard or on
the domain line first, before asking an arch or on the wizline.


0.3	Rules:

The domain Gondor abides by all rules in the mud, written or
unwritten! The fact that one or more other domains might or might not
do the same is irrelevant as far as your coding for this domain is
concerned. The main aim of the domain is to produce interesting and
balanced code. 

There are many rules in Genesis, not all of the are written
down. Therefore, if you have a fantastic novel idea, ask someone more
experienced first. You might not be the first one to have that idea,
and it might be illegal. 


0.4     The domain Gondor:

Gondor and the other Middle Earth domains are based on the books of
JRR Tolkien. While this does not mean that we have to follow Tolkien
in each and every detail, or that everything in Gondor has to be
mentioned in the books, it does mean that everything must fit into the
framework defined by the books.


0.5	Introducing yourself:

To make yourself known to the other members of the domain, please post
an introductory note on the domain board in this room:
/d/Gondor/workroom

You should also post notes there whenever you finish part of your
project, so others can have a look at your code, or when you start 
working on a new project.

You should also add a file <Yourname>.prj to the directory
/d/Gondor/open/project/, explaining the project you are or will be
working on to mortals visiting the Tower of the Domains in
Sparkle. Please remember to update that file from time to time.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


1.      Rules:

This is a summary of rules which you are required to follow. It is far
from comprehensive, but it should contain the most important ones.


1.1     Where to find them:

- Read the wiz scroll. If you do not have the scroll for some reason,
  type:
> clone /d/Genesis/obj/init_scroll
> read scroll

- Read the introductory files for wizards. You will find them by typing:
> man INTRO_RULES
> man GENESIS

- Read the rules for wizards in the directory
  /d/Genesis/doc/rules/wizard, especially the file
  wiz_vs_player_policy. 

- Read the COPYRIGHT notice!
> more /doc/COPYRIGHT

- Re-read the rules file for mortals, read it from your now changed
  perspective! 


1.2	Opening code to mortals:

The Lord or the Lady is responsible for every object in the
domain. Therefore, he or she alone has the right to decide which new
code is made available to the mortals in the mud.

This means especially that a quest or an area may only be opened by
the Lord or the Lady of a domain, or by a wizard who has the explicit
permission to do so. 


1.3     What you should always keep in mind:

o  The game is over, you are a wizard!

   Interaction between your wizard character and mortals should be
   kept to a minimum.

   The following actions are illegal and can be punished by demotion: 

   - Helping mortals in combat or with quests.

   - Giving hints to mortals, except general info about available
     commands. This means, hints will in most cases be just: 
     'read help topics'! 

   - Restoring anything a mortal lost in a crash. That is for arches
     and the helpers of the player arch to do.

   - Helping a mortal in case of a bug, eg by transferring the player
     to another room, unless the mortal otherwise cannot continue to
     play. If a room has no exits due to a bug, and you know that it
     is not a trap, you may bring the mortal to a room nearby. 
     Resetting a room so a mortal can finish a quest might be your
     last command as a wizard. 

   - Giving a mortal any information on his or her character is in
     almost all cases illegal. This includes but is not restricted to
     telling stat values, skill values, fatigue values, weapon and
     armour classes and so on. It is not illegal to tell a mortal, 'If
     you want to know if that morning star is a club, why don't you
     appraise it?' 

   - Giving a mortal information about implementation details is also
     illegal. Do not explain to a mortal how critical hits work, do
     not tell them which skills spells use, do not tell them what
     skills are checked for a special attack. You may however point
     out help files to them if such help files exist and can be read
     by mortals.

   - Your opinion on anything regarding the mud should not be
     discussed with mortals. This includes but is not limited to your
     opinion on the behaviour of mortals, on posts on boards that can
     be read by mortals, on the balance or imbalance of guilds,
     weapons, domains, and on the positive or negative sides of your
     fellow wizards. You should as a rule not post on boards open to
     mortals outside the domain Gondor. You should post on the wizard
     boards of other domains only if there is a valid reason to do
     so. 


o Seconds:

   - If you have not finished your apprenticeship yet, as wizard of
     Gondor, you are not allowed to play with a second mortal
      character. 

   - If you have finished your apprenticeship project, you may ask me
     for permission to play a mortal second character. As a rule I
     will not object if you have finished or made good progress on
     your second project. 

   - You have to register your second character using the 'second'
     command. Failure to register your second will lead to the removal
     of both your wizard and your mortal character(s).

   - If you have a second character, do not interact with your two
     characters. Your second character ideally should not even know
     the solutions to quests your solved with the character that
     became a wizard! ;-) 

   - Giving cash to a npc with your wizard character, and retrieving
     this later with your mortal character can lead to deletion of
     both characters. Reading up quest solutions with your wizard
     character so your mortal character can solve the quests, can lead
     to demotion. 

   - Don't try to outthink me or admin in inventing ways how to help
     you second or other mortals with your wizard character. If it
     will be of any help at all to your mortal character, chances are
     (and experience tells me) that it will be noticed by someone.

   - It is illegal to tell other mortals that your mortal character is
     the second of a wizard. If the identity of your mortal character
     as a wizard second in any way whatsoever, you may have to
     discontinue your mortal character (ie, get it erased), even if
     you are not responsible for the fact that its identity became
     known.

   - Your mortal second can NOT be a member of a guild council
     anywhere in the mud. Your mortal second should seek to keep a low
     profile, and if possible avoid direct conflicts with other
     players. 

   - If the identity of your second as the second of a wizard becomes
     known to mortals by whatever means, your second character will be
     erased. Since it is possible that the identity of your second
     character is revealed by means beyond your control, any mortal
     second of a wizard always lives under the threat of being
     erased. From personal experience, let me warn you to pay
     attention when you sign notes or letters. 


1.4	Junior characters:

Junior characters are test characters that you can create to test code
with a mortal character. It is not legal to ask a mortal to test some
code for you! 

A mortal may come into contact only if the Lord or the Lady of the
domain has opened that code for contact with mortals!

If you have a Jr character, the same restrictions for interaction with
mortals apply as for your wizard character. 

Moreover, it is illegal to socialize with mortals using the Jr
character. This includes introducing the Jr character to other
mortals. If you want to be polite, move your Jr character to another
room, and then explain the circumstances to the mortals concerned
using your wizard character. 

More details on Jr characters can be found in 'man INTRO_RULES'.

If you are unable to login with both your wizard character and your
Jr, ask another wizard to clone the junior tool (/cmd/wiz/junior_tool)
for your Junior.


1.5	Domain specific rules:


o  No toys!

   Every object in the domain must conform to the rules, including
   code not yet available to mortals. Weapons with WC 100 are illegal,
   even if they were meant just for your personal amusement. Wizards
   code, mortal play. No toys for wizards.

o  Be careful in 'open' areas!

   Do not 'update' an object (including rooms!) in areas open to
   mortals, unless you know exactly what will happen when you do this,
   and that it will not interfere with any mortal.

   This means, that you should never update a room outside the domain
   Gondor, and inside only if you have read and understood the code! 

   Use 'Call' extremely cautiously in areas open to mortals.

   Be certain that you know what you are doing, and that it will not
   interfere with mortals.

o  Check domain specific coding conventions and standards in
   /d/Gondor/open/domain.rules.

o  Use the 'done' and 'donelog' commands to keep the domain Lord and
   your fellow domain wizards informed of your work and progress,
   and it keeps you informed of their work.



1.6	Other wizards:

Be polite!

In specific:

o  It is considered to be polite to use the 'audience' command:

   > audience <name>

   to contact another wizard. Just transporting to the wizard with

   > goto <name>

   without asking if you are welcome is considered highly
   impolite. Look at the 'audience' command as knocking on a door
   before entering. 

o  Try to keep questions to as small a group of wizards as
   appropriate. It makes little sense to bother a wizard of Krynn if
   you cannot find a file in Gondor.

   Use 'dtell' (or 'line Gondor') before you use 'wiz' if there are
   wizards of Gondor present.

   If someone takes the time to help you, especially if it is a wizard
   from another domain, please show that you appreciate that help.

o  Don't meddle in affairs that do not concern you.

   If you do not like code of another domain, you may - politely! -
   ask the responsible coder or the domain Lord or Lady if they are
   willing to discuss it with you.

   Do not complain on a board about it, especially not if it is a
   board that can be read by mortals.

   If you think the problem is serious, please talk to me first. 

   If you discover a bug in another domain, make a bug report or mail
   the responsible coder or Lord/Lady. Do the same if you think an
   item is in violation of the rules. There is no need to involve the
   arches if a simple bug report will notify your colleagues of an
   oversight. 

   Respect it if other domains do not wish you to visit their areas or
   part of their area, like guild rooms. Respect it also if they
   choose not to reveal some information to you. If they do not wish
   you to know how some code works, then that is their privilege. If
   they are willing to share the code with you or to let you study it,
   then show that you appreciate the help.

   In short, 'Don't do unto others what you do not want to be done
   unto you!' 


1.7	Network security

A wizard character on a LPmud is a kind of super user.

You have been given this status because we trust you not to abuse this
status. This trust is personal, that means, it has been extended to
you, not to anyone else. We therefore expect you to take all
reasonable precautions to prevent anyone else to abuse the status of
your wizard character. 

One of these precautions consists of choosing a 'safe' password. If
you do not know what a 'safe' password is, please ask! If in doubt,
please ask! 

If you password is cracked, and someone else use your character, you
will be held responsible unless you can convince me that you were not
negligent in choosing a password.

Another of these precautions is that you keep your password secret and
known only to yourself. I will consider wizard who give their
passwords away to other persons, even to wizards of the domain Gondor
and even to me, as security risks to the domain and to Genesis.

If you want to keep your status as a wizard, do not give your password
away to anyone!


1.8	Email

Keep the email entry in your finger info up to date!

If you do not wish to reveal your email address to all wizards,
instead of giving your email address in the finger info, refer to a
file in your private/ directory. Do so if there is anything important
to mention about your email address, for example if you do not have
your own email address and rely on a friend to forward mail to you
sent to you care of his or her email address. 

If I cannot reach you by email, I may come to the conclusion that you
lost net access if you fail to connect to Genesis for a few weeks and
may expel you from the domain!


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------



2.	Help files:

2.1	LPC:

There are two manuals on LPC available, and Mrpr is presently writing
a new and much improved one. I suggest you start with reading this new
manual. As it is still a draft, you can find it in the directory
~mrpr/open/lpc/. It is also available from the Genesis web page,
	http://www.NeoSoft.com/genesis/lpc.html

The other manuals are:
/doc/man/general/INTRO
/doc/man/general/LPC

You can access these two files using the command 'man':
> man INTRO
> man LPC

A more extensive documentation of 'value by function calls' can be
found in: 
/doc/man/general/VBFC_MANUAL.

Type
> man VBFC_MANUAL
to read it.

You can get an overview of all manual chapters using
> man -c 

Important information can be found in the chapters "general" and
"Genesis". List the contents of a manual chapter using:
> man <chapter>


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

3.      Important commands:


3.1     allcmd:

'allcmd' gives you a list of all commands available to you. It is a
very good idea to spend a few hours to get familiar with your
commands. 


3.2     sman:

'sman' is a very powerful tool for coders.

It enables you to find the function name of almost every function in
the mudlib. An experienced user can answer almost every question
concerning the mudlib using 'sman'.

Do not start coding before you have made yourself acquainted with this
tool. The 'help sman' file is a must!

If you have a problem finding the information you want using 'sman',
ask someone more experienced, 'I tried to find <topic> using sman, but
for some reason I didn't manage. Can you please tell me what I did
wrong?' instead of asking on the wizline, 'What's <topic> and how does
it work?' 

Examples for the use of 'sman' at the end of this file.


3.3     man:

'man' is similar to 'sman', but gives info on efuns (external
functions, ie gamedriver functions), rules, properties, and more. Try
'man -c' to see the available chapters.

I already used this command a few times in preceding paragraphs as it
allows quick access to important reference files.

The most important chapter is 'man general' (directory
/doc/man/general/). It contains files with rules on many different
topics. You can access these files using 'man <topic>'.

You are expected to know everything in those files, if it is relevant
to your coding. To learn eg about weapons and armours type:
> man weapon
> man armour
> man weapon_guide
> man armour_guide
and read those files before you start coding your first weapon and your
first armour!


3.4     tracer:

The tracer is another powerful tool. With it you can do get
information about objects in the mud and call functions in the
objects. 

Reading 'help tracer', 'help Call', and 'help Dump' is absolutely
required. If you have any problems or questions, ask a helpful wizard
to explain it to you. 


3.5     ed:

The one and only editor in the mud.  For a tutorial, see 
'more /d/Gondor/common/doc/editor_tutorial'.  For a manual see 
'man general ed'.


3.6     toolsoul and cmdsoul:

Souls are used to define commands. You already know souls (or at least
what can be done with them) from the souls defined by guilds. Your
guild commands are defined in a soul.

There are also souls for wizards to make coding and managing the game
easier. Souls that only wizards may have are called tool souls, all
others are called command souls.

But a word of wisdom and warning:

In the old days, when I was a young wizard, almost all code for the
exclusive use of wizards (wizard tools) was considered unnecessary and
thus illegal. As it is hard to teach new tricks to old dogs, I still
frown on 'wiz code'. We are here to code for the mortals, not for
ourselves! So think twice (and think better) before you code another
skill setter, wiz line, or whatever. Mercade has made an enormous
effort to integrate useful commands of half a dozen of toolsouls into
the mudlib wizard command souls. If I find you re-coding a command
that already exists in the mudlib, I may get the impression that you
are wasting your time.

Once upon a time, wizard toolsouls were illegal unless declared legal
by the by the admin. There has been some attempt to re-introduce this
practise recently. Legal toolsouls are:

- /cmd/std/tracer_tool.

To load a new tool soul, eg the tracer, type:
> toolsoul /cmd/std/tracer_tool
> newhooks

'newhooks' enables the command defined by the toolsoul.

To list your toolsouls, just type
> toolsoul

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



4.	Boards:

To keep up to date on developments in the domain and in the mud there are
several boards you should read.

To read boards, use of the mbs wizard soul is recommended. For an introduction
read 'mbh tutorial'.

The boards that are considered obligatory reading for every member of the
domain are (name, category, domain, as used by mbs):
- Admin, Adm, Genesis
- Info, Adm, Genesis
- News, Adm, Genesis
- Gd, Develop, Genesis
- Lpc, Develop, Genesis
- Mudlib, Develop, Genesis
- Tool, Develop, Genesis
- Gondor, Domain, Gondor

Recommended reading are:
- Discuss, Adm, Genesis
- Domain, Adm, Genesis
- Guild, Adm, Genesis
- Idea, Adm, Genesis
- Magic, Develop, Genesis
- Shire, Domain, Shire


Before you ask questions, you might want to make sure that they are
not answered on any of the boards mentioned above.

To learn how to use 'mbs', use the help info on 'mbs' supplied via the
command 
> mbh tutorial
> mbh mbs

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


5.	Coding:

5.1	Examples and how to treat them:

Most domains in Genesis have grown over several years. In this time
old wizards left, new wizards joined, the mudlib and the gamedriver
were modified. 

Consequently, there is a lot of code out there that works, but is
completely unfit to be used as example if you want to write good
code. Therefore, before you use any code as example, please ask
someone knowledgeable if that code is fit to be used as example!


5.2	'inherit':

Proper use of 'inherit' saves CPU time, memory, and disk space.

Before you start coding in Gondor, you will have to have at least a
basic understanding of the concept of inheritance, and how it differs
from the precompiler directive '#include' (and from - horribile dictu
- paste and copy).

Use 'include' only if it is impossible to use 'inherit'.

Copy functions only if it is impossible to use 'include'.

Never copy a file of 100 lines just to modify 3 or 4 of them!

If you have files which differ only in a few lines (eg two
neighbouring rooms, a large and a small orc, ... ) you should consider
making one common file, and then configuring or inheriting this common
file.  

If you have more than 3 of those files, you should be prepared to
produce an excellent reason to explain why you didn't create a common
file. 

'I didn't know how.' will not be an acceptable reason.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

