		Gondor - The Kindom by the Sea
		==============================

       "Gondor! Gondor, between the Mountains and the Sea!
 	West Wind blew there; the light upon the Silver Tree
	Fell like bright rain in gardens of the Kings of old.
	O proud walls! White towers! O winged crown and throne of gold!
	O Gondor, Gondor! Shall Men behold the silver Tree,
	or West Wind blow again between the Mountains and the Sea?"

		The prehistory of Gondor
		------------------------

	Gondor one of the two Realms of Exile founded by the 
	Numenoreans at the end of the Second Age of Middle Earth. 
	Gondor, the South Kingdom, at the time of its greatest power 
	power rules over all lands in the south of the Westlands, the
	known parts of the continent called Middle Earth.

	The Numenoreans and their descendants living in Gondor and in
	Arnor, the North Kingdom, are called Dunedain, Men of the West. 
	The two Realms of Exile have been in fight with Sauron the Enemy
	since they were founded. The first King of both Gondor and
	Arnor, Elendil of Numenor, and Gil-Galad, the last High King of
	the Noldor Elves in Middle Earth slew Sauron in the War of the
	Last Alliance at the end of the Second Age. Both Elendil and
	Gil-Galad died of the wounds they received in that battle,
	however, and Isildur, Elendil's son became King of the Realms in
	Exile.

	More than three thousand years have passed since then. The North
	Kingdom ceased to exist more than one thousand years ago, and
	only few years after its downfall, the last King of Gondor died
	as captive in the dungeons of the Enemy. Sauron is back in
	Mordor, and preparing for the final assault on Gondor and the
	Westlands. Only the river Anduin and a narrow strip of land on
	its east bank, called Ithilien, lie between Mordor and Gondor,
	so the threat of the coming war and final victory of Sauron
	which seems to be inevitable lie as a heavy burden on the minds
	of the people of Gondor. Gondor is rules by Stewards of the
	House of Hurin, who hold their office 'until the King returns.' 


	 	The cities in Gondor
		--------------------

	Minas Tirith is the capital of Gondor. It lies on hill at the
	foot of the Mindolluin, the easternmost mountain of the Ered
	Nimrais, the White Mountains of Gondor.

	Minas Tirith is built in seven concentric circles, each circle
	being protected by one of the seven walls of the city. In the
	innermost circle, on top of the hill, stands the citadel and the
	White Tower of Ecthelion. In front of the tower is the Court of
	the Fountain where the dead White Tree of Gondor stands, 


	Minas Morgul lies in Morgul Vale east of the Anduin. It was
	founded at the end of the Second Age by Isildur, son of Elendil,
	as Minas Ithil, Tower of the Rising Moon. For two thousand
	years, it controlled one of the two roads leading into Mordor. 
	But in the year 2002 of the Third Age, the Lord of the Nazgul,
	most dreadful of the servants of the Enemy conquered the city
	and took residence there. From then on, its name was Minas
	Morgul, Tower of Dark Sorcery.

	Edoras is the capital of Rohan, the kingdom of the horsepeople,
	the Rohirrim. Rohan was once a part of the kingdom Gondor, but
	about five hundred years ago, Cirion, twelfth Ruling Steward of
	Gondor, gave Rohan to Eorl and his people, so they could settle
	in the lands depleted of people by war and plague, and could be
	allies of Gondor.

	The Kings of Rohan reside in the Golden Hall, Meduseld, built in
	Edoras by Brego, son of Eorl. There lives now the current Lord
	of theMark, Theoden King, son of Thengel.



		Other places of note
		--------------------

	The Helms Deep with the Hornburg is an old fortress in Rohan. 
	Beside a large natural cave in the mountainrange that runs south
	of Rohan, the Rohirrim built the fortress, to defend from
	attacks from the west. 

	The castle Orthanc was built long ago by the Dunedain at the
	height of their powers to guard their western frontier. It lies
	in the Garth of Isengard in the valley Nan Curunir at the feet
	of Methedras, the southernmost mountain of the Hithaeglir or
	Misty Mountains. In the year 2759 of the Third Age, with leave
	of the Steward of Gondor, the head of the White Council, the
	wizard Saruman, took residence in Orthanc. Unfortunately Saruman
	has fallen into evil thoughts, and is now possessed with the
	desire for power. So in Orthanc he creates hordes of orcs, to
	conquer Middle-Earth. 

	Fangorn Forest lies north of the fields of Rohan. This forest is
	rumoured to contain living trees, and would thus be dangerous to
	enter. Then ents are not so dangerous as rumours tells, though, 
	and one might even find help with them.

	The river Anduin runs from the far north, along the Misty Mountains
	to the west and Mirkwood to the east. To the south Anduin runs
	straight through Gondor towards the sea, and for Gondorians it is
	a fine way of transport. The river lies between Minas Tirith and
	Ithilien.

	Ithilien once was the garden of Gondor. It lies between the
	Anduin and the Ephel Duath, the Mountains of Shadow, which form
	the western border of Mordor, the Black Land. Nowadays, Ithilien
	has been deserted by its inhabitants, and orcs and evil men rule
	the land. Only a few courageous rangers still fight them in the
	name of Gondor.

	There is one pass leading from Ithilien through the Morgul Vale
	across the Mountains of	Shadow to Mordor. In this path lies
	Minas Morgul, the Tower of Dark Sorcery.

	
	
		The lay-out of Gondor
		---------------------

	The domain Gondor consists of the kingdoms Gondor and Rohan.
	This includes regions like Dunland, Ithilien, and Minas Morgul,
	which of old belonged to Gondor and which Gondor still claims
	as parts of its realm.
	Gondor's northern neighbours are the Shire west of the Misty
	Mountains and Rhovanion east of them. In the south, Gondor
	extends to the sea.

	Gondor has two open occupational guilds, the Rangers of the
	Westlands and the Society of Morgul Mages. There are also two
	race guilds, the Houses of the Dunedain and the Rockfriends. 


	/ Lord Elessar of Gondor.
	updated on July 20th, 1993
	/ Olorin, Steward of Gondor
	updated on February 14th, 1997
	/ Olorin, Lord of Gondor
