GENERAL BULLETIN BOARDS IN GENESIS
==================================

There are well over a hundred bulletin boards in Genesis. They can be devided
in three categories: general boards, domain boards and mortal boards. To
start with the last category, the mortal boards, they are mainly the guild
boards and the boards that can be found in cities and other places throughout
Genesis. Mortals can read and write on them if they can find them. Domain
boards are the boards that are subject to the responsibility of one or a few
domains. Each domain will have a boards named <domain>.d and some have others
too. These domain boards are intended for discussion amongst the domain, but
others wizards can also post on the .d boards to discuss matters related to
that particular domain. Not everyone may have access to the other boards some
domains have created.

The rest of this document deals with the general boards. General boards are
boards set up by the administration for announcements and discussion all
sorts of topics of general importance to the game. It is recommended that
you subscribe to most of these boards, though that is not required in all
cases. However, bear in mind that if you are involved in a particular field
yourself, not reading the board is not a good excuse for nor knowing what is
posted on it. Below is a list of all general boards with a small explanation
of what is (or should be) on them. Unless stated otherwise, each board can
be read and written on by all wizards.


news       The news board is for important announcements that everyone
           should read. All wizards can read it and write on it. This board
           is mandatory reading for everyone.

admin      The admin board is for important announcements that everyone
           should read, made by the administration. All wizards can read it,
           but only arches ++ can write on it. This board is mandatory
           reading for everyone.

common     The common board is for important announcements that all wizards
           and mortals should read. Mortals can read it too, but only
           wizards can post on it. This board is mandatory reading for
           everyone.

mudlib     The mudlib board is for all discussion and announcements regarding
           the mudlib and its use. All coding wizards should read this to
           keep up to date with changes and enhancements in the mudlib.

lpc        The LPC board is for all discussion, questions and announcements
           regarding coding in LPC. All coding wizards should read this to
           keep up to date with changes, enhancements and coding tips.

idea       The idea board is meant to post ideas on that could have a general
           impact on the game. Note that the replies to the idea and the
           further discussion should be on the discuss board.

discuss    The discuss board is meant for discussion of ideas posted on the
           idea board or other general discussion. Discussion on this board
           should be civil and to the point of the matter. We have the flame
           board for less courteous replies.

domain     The domain board is meant for all discussion and announcements
           that have to deal with domains in general and the way they operate
           in this game. All wizards in domains should read this board.

guild      The guild board is meant for discussion and announcements with
           respect to guilds in general, specific guilds and what happens to
           them. All wizards involved in guilds should read this board.

gamedriver The gamedriver board is meant for all discussion and announcements
           that have to do with the gamedriver and its development. Usually
           you will find techo-babble here, but also announcements that can
           affect you.

tools      The tools board is meant for all discussion and announcements with
           respect to wizard tools. If you have a tool, or want to suggest
           functionality for one, you should post on this board. All wizards
           interested in their wizard commands, should read this board.

magic      The magic board is meant for all discussion about magic in these
           lands. If you are interested in magic, you should read this board.

lobby      The lobby board is the main discussion board for mortals. All
           mortals can read and write on it too.

advanced   The advanced board is a board for discussion for alternatives for
           wizardhood by 'high leveled mortals'. However, as the lobby board
           is usually used for senseless babble, this board is its serious
           equivalent for other discussions than wizardhood.

misc       This board is intended for all messages that are not related to
           Genesis as such, but that you want to share with the wizards of
           Genesis all the same.

flame      Need I say more? The flame board is for all violent "discussion"
           amongst wizards. Reading only for those who can stomach insults.
           Even though this is a "board without rules", (severe) racial and
           sexual harassment is not even accepted here.

