The History of Khalakhor
------------------------

The origin of Khalakhor is lost among the mist of memories. Every sentient
race native to Khalakhor has its own creation myth. What is known, is that
the past haunts the present. Evidence of an unknown intelligent race (or
races) exists in the form of ruins and mysterious structures, such as
stone rings and barrows. None of these can be accurately explained by any
of the current races.

Geographically, Khalakhor has the general appearance of a three-spoked
pinwheel, spinning clockwise. A chain of islands encircles the perimeter.
The northern spoke of Khalakhor consists of wastelands, subject to
eternal darkness.  A strange affliction affects those who reside in the
north, tainting their behaviour and making it increasingly more erratic
and chaotic. The southwestern areas are dominated by great forests while
the southeast has a varied landscape. It ranges from highlands to a small
forest, plains to rocky moors.  The central hub is rocky highlands, with
aspects of other ecosystems creeping into the fringes.

The current races of Khalakhor have cultures all derived from some aspect
of Scottish legend and history, with a mix of Irish and Welsh thrown in
for good measure. The native races are hardy folk, well suited and used to
harsh climes, strife and apparent scarcity of sustenance. The Dwarves live
in the centre lands, concentrating on mining. Humans occupy the southeast
leg of Khalakhor, growing from many resource-based industries. The
southwest portion of Khalakhor is home to the Elves, who now exist in few
numbers. The north portion of Khalakhor is home to hordes of Goblins, who
live among the darkness. 

Khalakhor's recent history is marred by war. Episodic attacks by the
goblin hordes from the north have fostered a hatred between the goblins
and the other three races, who, for the most part, are allied.

The First Great War was between the goblin folk and the allied humans,
dwarves and elves. To the non-Elven people, it was never clear why the
Elves chose to be at the forefront of the battle, but the results had no
such ambiguity. They bore the brunt of the attacks, and suffered severe
losses in numbers. There was an equal number of female Elves among the
warriors, and so the decimated population of Elves has never recovered.

The battle was only won when sixteen separate magical orders formed a
collective force against the chaotic and evil enemies from the north.
After the war had been won, the remnants of Khalakhor were led by these
groups of magic-users, now known as The Wise. Again, following a purpose
known only to them, those Elves which remained swore an oath to protect
The Wise. The oath remains to this day. 

The Second Great War occurred centuries later. Emboldened by a new metal
which offered a resistance to magic that they had discovered in mines, the
goblin forces raided the south once more. Again, they sought the rich
resources of the south for their ever expanding population, as well as an
escape from some mysterious force which perverted their behaviours and
their young. To the chagrin of The Wise, the metal proved more effective
than merely offering resistance to magic. It sapped the magic and the life
completely from those who practiced in certain schools of magic. Less than
half of the original sixteen schools remain to this day, because of this
great battle. This war lasted decades, ending only when a final push of
dwarven and human warriors broke the backbone of the goblin forces in a
battle tactic still studied by all military leaders. The Wise retreated
from the world, isolating themselves because of the shame in their
inability to prevent such destruction of life. Sworn to protect, the Elves
also became less visible, although they still travel the lands.

From this victory, the human Braynt of Telonden named himself Highlord of
Khalakhor, although it was not his genius that captured victory.

Due to his increasingly chaotic behaviour, civil unrest led to an
overthrow of Braynt's feudal form of government. Khalakhor changed into a
land of clans, based on kinship and old oaths (thus a dwarven family may
exist in the same clan as a human family). Clans claim the first and
greatest loyalty of any member. To anger one member of a clan, is to anger
all.  Disputes over borders or bloodshed arise, though these are quiet and
do not threaten to become an outright war. Frequently, the clan thanes
rule over an area of land with one or several city-states.  

Modern day Khalakhor teeters on the brink of war again, although most
humans and dwarves are ignorant to this fact. A revival of some schools of
magic has occurred, as some of The Wise have emerged from their isolation
to roam the lands again, this time as advisors and defenders. It is known
by the remnant factions of The Wise that goblin-hordes are gathering in
the north, but even they do not know the true extent of the danger.

