Khalakhor in General.

Geography:

	The domain itself is shaped like a 3-bladed pinwheel,
that appears to be rotating clockwise when viewed from above.
The 'blades' of Khalakhor point approximately north, southeast,
and southwest.  Spread in a circular chain between the tips of
the blades are chains of islands.  Between the 'blades' is, of
course, a lot of water.

Here's a rough depiction:
* - Land (much thicker than the 'sketch' shows)
o - Islands.

                              * o   o  
                           o    *      o           
                  CHAOS  o       *       o ORDER   /\
                        o        *                 || North
                                 *        o        ||
                       o    * * *         
                          *       *       o
                        o*          *     *
                         *            * *o
                           o           o
                               o    o   
                             BALANCE

	Khalakhor's lands are dominated by one of the facets of
the Triad, as a result of the Age of Turmoil.  Chaos reigns in
the northwest, Order in the northeast, and true Balance in the
south.  Where the 'land facets' join, determines the kind of place
it is.  The northern reaches of Khalakhor, for example, are the
border between Chaos and Order.  As a result, those lands are in
almost constant war.  Order creeping in and building up, only to
be torn down by Chaos.  In the southeast, Order is dominant, and
kept from going 'too far' by Balance.  Similarly, the southwest
is a wildland.  No Order, but again Balance prevents Chaos from
establishing a true madland there.  The islands, however,
represent each facet in their almost pure form, as they exist
solely in one facet only.  The hub of the wheel, where the three
blades meet, also are where the three facets come together.  Nobody
is really sure what's going to happen there in the Highlands.

	Now, a bit about the land itself.  As mentioned, the center
of Khalakhor (the hub) is a mountainous highland region.  To the
southeast and southwest, the southernmost 2/3 of the blades are
more or less hilly lowlands/grasslands.  The northern blade
ascends into a dark, cold region where nothing grows, known as
the Great Waste of the North.  This portion of Khalakhor extends
beyond the 'top horizon' of the Genesis Toroid, partially into
the Dark Zone, placing the northernmost 1/2 or 1/3 of that region
in perpetual darkness and cold.

	Structures/guilds etc. will probably be placed rather
randomly around the domain, as there aren't a whole lot of 
restrictions.  Khalakhor's rather odd geography allows for numerous
areas which only connect by shipline.  The majority of 'modern
civilization' will probably be in the southeast blade of the
domain, which as Order/Balance, is the most 'newbie-friendly'.
The southwest will probably make average hunting grounds, and
the north is the really good hunting, with all the big npc's.
The islands are wildcards.  They're largely isolated from the
mainland, almost anything can be located on them. 

	The domain itself is largely clan-oriented.  It's 'ruled'
jointly by a council comprised of human and dwarven clan thanes.
The human clans occupy the southern lowlands, the dwarven clans
occupy the central highlands.  The goblin clans, in the north,
are largely consumed by Chaos, and frequently at war with the
human and dwarven clans, excluding them from the ruling council.

	Initial projects would probably be restricted to a handful
of small/intermediate areas.  First and formost would be a port
city, which would be continually added to over time, as it would
probably serve as the capital city of Khalakhor, on the southeast
blade of the domain.  A few 'newbie' adventuring areas would be
immediately surrounding the capital, and a shipline would probably
lead to a smaller village in the southwest blade for some intermediate
level hunting/questing.  Plans are in the works for around 5 or 6
guilds at the moment, though they'll not be seriously worked on
until some areas are open.

	The domain itself is not intended to be 'the king of all
domains'.  It's entire purpose is giving me a place I can code in
piece and quiet, and provide players with an area I control completely,
not an area I coded to coincide with someone else's theme.  It
should be considered a very small domain with only a couple coders
(experienced and time-proven trustworthy), and should the unthinkable
occurr and we actually code all the places and people mentioned in
docs, it will happen 'just because', not because it was planned.       