************This guild was closed by Dunstable and Arwen on
April 30, 1995. Replacing it are the Heralds of the Valar and the Tricksters*******
Hin Warrior guild
-----------------
(Last updated on april 23rd, 1994)

How, where, how much, why and what? In a moment. But first some background:


The History of the guild of the Hin Warriors
--------------------------------------------
Several ages ago a simple hobbit by the name of Nob Nar made several trips
to places outside the Shire. On his travels Nob made several friends who
joined him as he travelled around, adventuring and searching for treasures.
His friends were of all races: lightfooted elves, exellent building dwarves,
bold gnomes, strong humans and of course pipe smoking hobbits.

This smoking of the pipe-weed in pipes was taken over by all friends and the
pipe became a symbol of the group that was lead by Nob Nar. They ventured to
places that were still uncharted in those days and slayed quite a few beasts.
None of the group was a great warrior, but it was the whole group that gave
its members more fidelity, more fierceness, maybe even more strength when
fighting an opponent.

One day the group entered yellow vale, the ground burned and smelling like
sulfur. It was here that the group fought a battle that lasted two nights
and a day with the evil four-winged two-headed dragon Hqswrin, who was a
burden on at least five gnome-villages. The people kindly referred to the
group as the Hqswrin Warriors, even though noone of the group really was a
warrior. Nob decided that he liked the idea of having a name for the group,
so he took the name. Since virtually noone of the group could say the word
Hqswrin, they took the name Hin Warriors upon them after a few weeks.

Somehow, Nob Nar had an exceptionally long life-span. In his older years he
settled down in the mountains near Hobbiton, in his favourite part of the
world. There, in the mountains he founded a home for the members of his still
growing group. Nob Nar died there of old age, and he was regarded as a god
from thereon.


Things to know about our guild
------------------------------
Main guild room:		/d/Shire/common/guild/rooms/hguild
Library:			/d/Shire/common/guild/rooms/libr1
				/d/Shire/common/guild/rooms/libr2

Guild object:			/d/Shire/common/guild/pipe
Joining object (in guildroom):	/d/Shire/common/guild/statue

You can join our guild by typing "pledge allegiance" in our guild
room. Being a member of the guild costs the tax that is calculated
below. In return for that you get spells, a tell line, a bunch of new
emoting-commands, the pipe of the Shire (our guilditem) and a brand
new shadow that brightens your existence with a flashy title.

Since people can start up in the guildroom, a post-office is around the
corner. The libraries contain descriptions of the spells, and of the
commands that are supplied by the pipe. There, you will also find the
guild guidelines and cando's & candon'ts.

This is what the "Commitment" book in the library says:

   The Hin Warrior Guild is basically a brotherhood that offers
   you something in return. There are a few basic rules that you
   need to follow to become a great Hin Warrior:

       (1) Only fight against worthy opponents, fight with honour.
       (2) Help out other members of our guild.
       (3) Help out newcomers, even if they are not a member.
       (4) Do not disgrace yourself and thus the Hin Warriors.

It is possible to leave our guild by sacrificing something valuable,
a weapon or an armour. Leaving our guild also causes loss of money
because skills which were raised above a certain level are truncated
to a lower value.


What the guild offers
---------------------
The Hin Warrior name might be a bit misleading, the guild has no offensive
spells or commands. ONLY DEFENSIVE SPELLS ARE ALLOWED. The guild could
be placed under the "social guilds", if only there was such a type.
Officially it is a layman clerical guild, which is why the Shires can
cast a few minor spells like "light", "tend" and "clairvoyance".

The guild allows training of the following skills: DEFENCE, SPELLCRAFT,
CONJURATION, ABJURATION, ENCHANTMENT, TRANSMUTATION, LIFE, EARTH, APPR_MON,
APPR_OBJ, HERBALISM, LANGUAGE and LOC_SENSE. The six spellcrafting skills
are closely connected; being high in one leaves less points for the other
ones.

The guild has a herbal shop sells a few herbs, but also several kinds
of tobacco. The pipe enables people to smell the smoke in rooms where
they have smoked some tobacco. This was designed to get out of mazes
more easily, even the devious ones. Unfortunately, mazes have been
banned from Genesis. *sigh*


So, what is the amount of tax?
------------------------------
Ah, I thought you would never ask! Unfortunately I do not know enough
about the tax on spells, all I know is that mortals find them to be
funny, yet useless. Hence the low tax on the spells.

Take a look at this:

                      Max level  Untaxed  Tax levels   Tax in %
- Combat aid(1):                                          0.00
- Special places(2):                                      0.00
- Member to member tell:                                  4.00
- Harmless spells:
   o peace                                                0.01
   o tend                                                 0.01
   o cure                                                 0.01
   o adore                                                0.01
   o candle                                               0.01
   o clairvoyance                                         0.01
   o protect                                              0.40
   o hex                                                  0.01
- Offered skills:
   o spellcraft            50       20        30          0.50
   o form_conjuration(3)   33        0         0          0.55
   o form_abjuration(3)    33        0         0          0.55
   o form_enchantment(3)   33        0         0          0.55
   o form_transmutation(3) 33        0         0          0.55
   o element_life(3)       33        0         0          0.55
   o element_earth(3)      33        0         0          0.55
   o appraise monsters     25       50         0          0.00
   o appraise objects      27       50         0          0.00
   o herbalism             44        0         0          0.73
   o language              32       50         0          0.00
   o location sense        18       50         0          0.00
                          ---                            -----
                          396                             9.00

        (1) A defensive guild, remember?

        (2) There is a shop around the corner, but it does not offer
            special prices or something. It is just a place where
            tobacco for the pipe is sold, along with some simple herbs.

        (3) The maximum raise is actually 70%. Technically, a layman
            guild may not offer more than 50% raise in any skill, but
            by combining these 6 skills together, and limiting the total
            raise to 200%, we end up offering an average raise of 33%
            per skill. The maximum of 70% is still much below the 100%
            an occupational guild may offer. This is completely within
            the spirit of the law, methinks. 

Future of the guild
-------------------
The future was very shaky. There were less and less Hin Warriors since
mighty occupational guilds had been founded. Only very few players were
prepared to pay the high tax (15%) for the little gain they got back
from it. It is very hard for a layman guild (especially if you are not
based on giving a big advantage in combat) to compete with an occupational
guild.

So, under the revitalizing lead of Dunstable we decided to throw out
the talkline and save us a lot of tax. People are more willing now to
join our guild. However, we probably need more interesting spells 
and features to get their undivided interest again. The future may
be bright, but at the moment it is a bit misty.

				Tricky, Guildmaster of the Shires

