                            The Smiths Guild:
                            Rules and history
                           -------------------
Index:

Chapter 1: A brief history of smithing in Middle Earth.
Chapter 2: The greatest smiths ever.
Chapter 3: The history of this guild.
Chapter 4: Rules in the Smiths Guild.
Chapter 5: Skills and abilities in the guild.
Chapter 6: The Council.
Chapter 7: How to join the Smiths Guild.

Chapter 1
A brief history of smithing in Middle Earth:

It is widely known and accepted that the first smiths in Middle Earth are the
dwarves. The dwarves- according to their own mythologies were created by Aule
who is the god of smithcraft and stoneworking. It is true indeed that the
dwarves were the first in Middle Earth to forge blades and armours and in some
concerns the dwarves of old has not been rivaled by any other race- not even
elves- in their craft.
The elves who came from the Undying Lands long ago- the Noldor they are named
brought with them great knowledge in the craft of forging but many of the
greatest perished during the long wars with the dark powers and with themselves
But whereas the elves mostly use their powers to imbue their items with strange
powers (magic items as other would call them) the dwarves spend generations on
finding and developing the best alloys and shapes for their items.

Chapter 2
The greatest smiths ever:

It is widely accepted among the wise that the greatest smith of all times among
the children of Illuvatar was Feanor who created the Silmarils and who first
made weapons and armours among the elves.
Other great elven smiths are: Eol the Dark Elf and Curufin Fifth son of Feanor
The greatest dwarven smiths are: Durin the Deathless- the master of the seven
fathers of the dwarves, Narvi Carver of the Doors of Durin and Thrar the
founder of Nogrod.
Of humans it is hard to say who were the greatest but the greatest works from
human hands were made in Numenor - most likely with the help of the elves.

Chapter 3
The history of this guild:

This guild was founded by the dwarf Tranin who came passing through Bree more
than two hundred years ago. He found out that there were many people who were
interested in his profession in this village.
Tranin made a small blacksmith shop here and soon hopeful apprentices both
human and dwarven (and a few hobbits) came here to learn the skills of the
dwarf. That was the founding of the Smiths Guild.

Chapter 4
Rules in the Smiths Guild:

Goblins can not become members of the Smiths Guild.
Evil aligned people will not be tolerated in the guild either.
Fighting within the guild building is not allowed. If a smith is caught doing
this it is up to the Smith Masters decide what to do.
The Smith Masters have power to expel members or other masters if they deem
it wise.
The guild tax for the Smiths Guild is 9%.
It is possible at all times to <leave guild> in this room- both
the layman and occupational branch- but the punishment is the loss of one
fourth of ones combat experience.

Chapter 5
Skills and abilities in the guild:

All skills taught in the guild are somehow connected to the process of forging.

Chapter 6
The Council:

The Council concists of 11 persons who are to take care of the guild and guild
members.

The masters have the following special powers:
                Banish a normal member from the guild.
                Demote a guild master to normal member.
                Promote a member to master.
                Castout a member.
                Reaccept a castout member.

Chapter 7
How to join the Smiths Guild:

In order to become a layman smith one must complete an apprentice project
to prove worthy to join. Since elves and dwarves are both races born with
the skill of forging it might prove easier for these races to join than
others. The apprentice project is the necklace that all members of the guild
wear. The iron for the necklace can be bought from Bores- The High Master of
the smiths guild. When the iron bar is bought the apprentice must go to the
forge room and prepare the bar whereafter the apprentice must forge necklace.
After this the necklace must be given to Bores by the apprentice and bores
will either accept the apprentice or tell him/her if he/she is not worthy.
If a highranking smith wants to become an artificier (which is occupational)
the smith must ask Bores for acceptance. If Bores finds that the person knows
enogh about the ways of smithing he will tell him/her how to become an artifi-
cier. A person cannot be both layman smith and occupational artificier at the
same time- he/she will be changed from the smith branch to the artificier
branch automatically if he/she has proven worthy.

Chapter 5
Skills and abilities in the guild:

These are the skills that are taught to members of the Smiths Guild:

Forging up to eminent journeyman
Strike up to superior veteran
Appraise object up to confident veteran
Appraise value up to confident veteran
Parry to up superior amateur
Trading up to supperior journeyman

One of the following weapon skills can be taught to superior journeyman,
the other weapon skills will then only be taught to superior acolyte.

Sword, axe, knife and club.

Chapter 6
The Council

A few selected members of the Smiths Guild decides on
the guild policy and the punishment of members if such
is needed. These are called Masters of the Smiths Guild.
In this room you can <list masters> to see the names of
the Masters of the Smiths Guild.
Also, in the Bree post office, you can <mail masters>.
