
        A Guide to Equipment, by Zizuph
        ===============================
        

Equipment is an essential part to travelling the realm of Genesis.
Here is a guide intended to help answer the most common questions
that many have about how equipment affects you.

If you prefer to keep the mystery around equipment, you should
stop reading now and return this book to the shelf.  If you want to
know more, keep reading.
       

Q: How does item recovery work?

A: There are two different systems in place.  For armours and weapons,
   There will be a minimum and maximum recovery time that you can see
   when you appraise the item.  When you use the equipment in combat,
   both these numbers will drop more quickly.
   
   The minimum number indicates how long the equipment will last if
   you use it in non-stop combat without breaks.  The maximum number
   indicates how long the equipment will last if never 
   worn/wielded/held in combat at all.  When the clock runs out, the
   equipment will break.  
   
   For other equipment, it may be able to also stay with you at logout.
   You can confirm what will stay with you by using the command "save".
   If the item glows briefly, it will be kept with you.  If it is not
   listed, or does not glow briefly, you will drop it at logout, and
   it will vanish if you logout by being linkdead for too long.
   
   There are a small number of items that always recover.  These are 
   typically permanent quest items, guild items, or club items.
   
Q: How do weapons work?

A: Weapons have two different key values, their ability to hit, and
   their penetration.  The first value affects how often you 
   successfully connect with the weapon.  The second value affects how
   much damage a successful attack will make.  
   
   You can use the compare command to see how these two values compare
   in two different weapons.  Higher skill in appraise object and
   the weapons in question will lead to a more accurate result.
   
   Both these values affect the potency of the weapon, and will affect
   both white hits and guild specials.  Note that in the past, many
   guild specials were only impacted by the penetration of the weapon.
   This is no longer the case - both values matter for guild specials.
   
Q: How do armours work?

A: Armours by contrast have one key value, which is their armour class.
   These will reduce a fraction of the damage caused by a successful
   hit by your enemy.
   
   Often armours are slightly better at preventing certain types of
   damage (bludgeoning vs piercing vs slashing).
   
   Some attacks are designed to bypass armour.  These are typically
   magic, or elemental abilities.  Armour may not reduce these, though
   some armours also provide magical or elemental resistances on top
   of their armour class.
   
   Armours may cover multiple locations of your body.  The effect of
   multiple different armours, which cover the same location, is 
   cumulative - the more you have for a particular location, the 
   better that slot is protected.

   You can use the compare command to see how the armours compare.
   Higher skill in appraise object question will lead to a more
   accurate result.
   
Q: How do held items work?

A: A relatively small number of items are held, rather than wielded or
   worn.  These do not naturally provide attacks, or armour class,
   though some items may specifically provide such a boon.  When an 
   item is held, it is not considered a weapon.  This means that
   the benefits of two-handed combat are not provided, and parry will
   not be enabled for defence.  For more details on how skills affect
   combat, please read the faq_combat help.
   
   To equip a held item, you "hold" it.  To unequip it, you "release"
   it.
   
Q: Can a skill boost from an item take me past superior guru skill?

A: For the vast majority of items, the answer is no.  There may be a
   few that exist, but they may be changed to conform with everything
   else.  The highest skill you can see in your skills is superior
   guru.
   
   There will be a star next to your skill if an item is affecting it.
   That will indicate whether a skill boost is in effect.

Q: Why can't I wear/wield item XXX?

A: Many magical pieces of equipment have requirements to use them.  The
   most common requirements are skill, stat, alignment, or racial
   restrictions.  Most often these require minimum values, though that
   is not always the case.
   
   Sometimes equipment has strange restrictions that may limited it 
   in a way that may appear unfair.  If you come across one, you can
   try to report the equipment to the Liege where it comes from.  They
   may be willing to reevaluate whether the restriction is unfair, or
   an important thematic.

Last Updated September, 2021
