    The history of the dark elves, more commonly known as the drow, has
for millenia been closely tied to the underdark, that lightless realm
below the lands of light. However, the drow have not always lived in
the darkness. Ages ago, before the destruction of the surface elves, all
elves lived in harmony, all save for the drow. Even in that bygone era,
the drow were known as brutal, savage warriors. At that time they dwelt
in remote tropical jungles far south of here. For a time they lived 
there, content with their primitive and savage ways. Then came the 
arrival of Lolth, the Spider Queen. What followed was a series of rapid
advancements, brought about by the will of Lolth, in which the drow
grew in technology, power and sheer savagery. As a result, the drow
became ever more arrogant and aggressive, seeing themselves and their
goddess, Lolth, as the only beings fit to live in the world. Many and
great were the wars fought between the drow and the goodly elves. In the
end, the drow and their goddess were defeated by the superior (only in
numbers) good elves, thereafter known as the sun elves. The drow had
been forced to retreat into the depths of the underdark, for their
ancestral lands now lay in the hands of the sun elves. Coincidentally,
although the sun elves were triumphant over the drow, their victory
came at a terribly high price. Scholars estimate a loss of somewhere
between thirty to thirty-five percent for the sun elves from the war.
This huge loss of elven numbers greatly benefitted the newly emerged
humans, who were just beginning to expand and learn the rudiments of
civilization. Returning to the story at hand, the drow, finding 
themselves in an alien environment attempted to accomodate themselves
as best they could, for they had suffered heavly losses as well.
Unfortunately for the drow they ran afoul of one of the existing
residents of the underdark, the deep dwarves. The dwarves, longtime
residents of the lightless underdark, did not take kindly to an entire
race of elves suddenly appearing in their home. The following battles
were titanic indeed. Rumours are that The Great Rift, which lies many
leagues to the south, and the Great Chasm, just north of our fair city,
were the result of titanic magical explosions brought about by the 
drow-dwarf conflict. The drow, knowing they were outnumbered, once again
fled the field of battle, this time led by a high priestess of Lolth.
Undraya, the highest-ranking priestess of Lolth led the extremely
beleaguered drow northward, where eventually they found the safe haven
promised to them by Lolth. There were dwarves, many dwarves however that
already lived in this gigantic cavern, that was promised to them. So
once again the drow fought, this time many times more fiercely than 
before, for they were fighting a holy war, a war fully sanctioned by
their goddess, Lolth. After many days and much bloodshed, the drow
won their victory over the accursed dwarves, who were slain one and all.
A great city, Undraeth, was founded at this site, named in honor
of the leader that had led them to it. To this day, the drow dwell in
Undraeth, plotting and scheming against one another and the world
above...

Sergendil, Scholar of the Ancients and Sage of Kabal
