                      - The History of the Red Fang -
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     When the goblins were driven from their homes by the slaughtering 
humans, lead by their God Thanar, they sought refuge in the high 
mountains. The Thanar, intent of destroying all demi-humans, almost 
brought the extinction of the goblin race in Kalad. The few who survived 
were either taken in as slaves, or forced into isolation. It is just 
recently that the more radical Thanar force has been pushed down, as 
Kabal has recently open its ports to other worlds, tolerating other races 
more than it did once. However, the goblins have not forgotten the 
atrocities done by the foul humans and their God Thanar. The strongest 
group of goblins known reside in the mountain pass just north of the 
Caravan Route, and they are known as the Red Hand. They raid occasional 
merchants that travel along the route. Although the Kabalian humans find 
this quite annoying, they have not been able to exterminate them 
completely, and are seeking perhaps to come to a peace with them.
     However, a dangerous and elite tribe of the Red Hand exists known as 
the Red Fang. They are the strongest, smartest and deadliest of all the 
Kaladian goblins. They are not the stupid stereo-type of goblins you 
normaly would hear. Driven by hate and anger for the destruction of their 
race by the humans, they have trained and educated themselves. They come 
from all across the land, brining their trades and professions to help 
the cause of the Red Fang. They want only one thing, revenge. They 
utterly hate the Thanar, and despise most humans. Demi-humans, they trust 
somewhat, mainly because they too have suffered the wrath of the Thanar 
humans. 
    The Red Fang is a raiding army of terrorists. They come at night, 
riding wolves, into Kabal, destroying the humans, and freeing their 
goblin brothers from slavery. Lead by the feared and notorious General, 
Brutakis, they have no mercy. They have sworn, upon their common goblin 
blood, to never give up until the humans have paid for their crimes.

    If this is a cause you wish to serve, you may (sign in) to join our 
ranks. If you decide to betray us and our cause, you may (leave guild). 
To check the guilds you are a member of already, (list guilds). You can 
also (update membership) here. 
    Be warned, we do not like those who join us, then betray us by 
disregarding our cause, like joining groups or guilds with our enemies. 
However, we know all humans are not like those who destroyed our race, so 
you can use your own judgement. Yet, do not forget our cause! Long live 
the Red Fang and the Goblin race!!!

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Brutakis, the first Fang


