    Deep within the bowls of the underground temple in the Forest of
Shadows,a secrect cult, known as the Khiraa, which means Cult of the Dead
inancient Raumdorian language, hides out. Led by Lord Gylar, the ancient
and evil lich, they seek the powers of the grave to draw upon. These vile
people sacrifice their lives for an existance of undead immortality and
great power. They seek to further the goals of the Nameless One, who is
the object of their worship and who is known as the God of the Dead.
Destroying the living, and turning them to slaves of the Nameless One is
their goal. There are two orders in the Khiraa, much like the orders in
the Holy Church of Raumdor. The Knighthood, and the Priesthood.

- The Death Knights of the Khiraa

    These members of the Khiraa will be distinguished as members of the 
    occupational figher sect, giving them combat skills, and layman
    members of the priesthood, giving them lesser magic skills.

- The Priesthood of the Khiraa
  
    These members of the Khiraa will be distinguished as members of the
    occupational priesthood, giving them strong magic skills, and layman
    members of the fighter sect, giving them lesser combat skills.

    A lifetime commitment to the Nameless one, thus the two slots needed.

    I shall now go into further detail about each of the two branches of 
the Khiraa, starting with the Death Knights.


--------------------------------Death Knights------------------------------


    The Death Knights are an order of undead warriors. Sworn to eternal
service to the God of the Dead, the Nameless Once, they are extreemly
loyal. They fear nothing, and serve the agenda of the Nameless One with a
burning passion. Combining steel and magic, they are also known as the
Guardians of the Khiraa. Their order is marked by the grim skull of the
Khiraa with a single sword placed vertically behind it. The order is
seperated into two levels, the greater order, and the lesser. All new
knights start in the lesser, then when proven worthy, are given the powers
of the higher. The lesser order is known as the Order of Gol Dek, the
name of a netherworld demon who is one of the lieutenants of the Nameless
One. The higher order is known as the Order of Shaadok Y'Sulgash, the name
of another greater netherworld demon who is second only to the Nameless
One. All lesser Death Knights are subject to the rulings of the greater
Death Knights. There are different rankings in each order, and that in
itself seperates each level. The chain of command is very simple. It goes
from the Nameless One, Gol Dek or Shaadok Y'Sulgash, The Circle of the
Khiraa(The council which contains the highest ranking lichs), normal lich
necromancers, and then their higher ranking knights.

    Death Knights, as well as the lich priesthood, are undead creatures,
and do not like the light. Thus, members of the Death Knights must have
each body part(except neck and waist) covered with armour, or they will
burn. Unless they are in a room that is not lighted.

    Death Knights, being fearson undead warriors, are not easy to scare.

    Death Knights are skilled in the art of sword combat, and have the
ability to perform two special attacks. One is the stun bash, in which the
knight smashes their oponent with their shoulder or shin, doing some
damage and stunning them. The effectivness is dependant on the attacker's
and the target's armour, and their strength. Knights also have the ability
to perform the whirlwind of death attack. This is where the knight jumps
back from their oponent, then leaps forward and while in the air, bringing 
their swords crashing down in a deadly cross-swirling arch. If done
right, they will do a great amount of damage to their oponent.

    The tax for their skills and specials, the occ figher sect only,
    is in /d/Kalad/common/guilds/khiraa/doc/DK_OCC_TAX

    Death Knights are also part of the layman priesthood, thus granting
them magical abilities.

    Death Knights are skilled in the death magicks, as well as
transmutation and enchantment forms.
   
    List of spells and what they do for the lay priesthood are in
    /d/Kalad/common/guilds/khiraa/doc/DK_LAY_SPELLS

    The tax for their skills and spells, the lay priesthood sect only,
    is in /d/Kalad/common/guilds/khiraa/doc/DK_LAY_TAX

-------------------------------Lich Priesthood-----------------------------

    The Priesthood of the Khiraa, like the Death Knights, are necromancers
of undead nature. They sacrifice their lives for the immortal powers of
the grave. Thus, they become undead magic priests, known also as lichs.
Drawing their powers from the Nameless one, the God of the Dead, their
magicks reflect death. Their goal being that of the God of the Dead, which
is to seek the destruction of the living, and turn the world into an
undead chaotic plane under their rule, they have little tolerance for the
living.
    There are three levels of the Priesthood. The lesser necromancers, the
greater necromancers, and the high gholash warlocks. Each have powers
greater than the last. As one progresses through the ranks, one will
achieve the the highest ranks. 
    The head ruling body of the Khiraa, that which commands both the Death
Knights and the rest of the Priesthood, is called the Circle of the
Khiraa. They consist of the highest ranking priests, and make the rules
for members, as well as decide policy on a non-wiz level.
    Priest members are part of the occupational priesthood, and are thus
great users of the death magicks. They have many spells.

    List of spells and what they do for the occupational priesthood are in
    /d/Kalad/common/guilds/khiraa/doc/LP_OCC_SPELLS

    The tax for their skills and spells, the occupational priesthood sect only,
    is in /d/Kalad/common/guilds/khiraa/doc/LP_OCC_TAX

    Priests are also members of the layman part of the fighter sec, thus
giving them some combat ability. Though not nearly as good as the death
knights, they are somewhat skilled.
    They are taught in the arts of the sword, and have the ability to
perform one combat special. The Priest patiently awaits an opening in
their enemies defense, then strikes out with lunge aimed at disembowling
their oponent. Depending on their skill and weapon, they will do some
damage.

    The tax for their skills and specials, the lay fighter sect only,
    is in /d/Kalad/common/guilds/khiraa/doc/LP_LAY_TAX


--------------------------------Other Notes--------------------------------


    The Khiraa's main temple is in the underground catacombs of the temple
of the Khiraa. /d/Kalad/common/raum/cdlair2/, located in the Forest of
Shadows. But the files will be in the guild directory.
    Relevant files:
        joinroom
        boardroom
    
    To enter the guild, one must preform a task, or a quest if you will.
On completion of this task, they will be allowed to enter the library, in
which they can read up on the order. Then they can decide to enter the
guild, if they wish.
    
    Members can, if they wish, choose from a list of adjectives that will
reflect more of their undead nature, that will appear in ther shorts. They
will not be permanent, and if they leave the guild, their old adjectives
will be reenstated. All members will have the prop LIVE_I_UNDEAD added,
and the value will be equal to their guild stat.

   Death to those who enter, and death to those who leave.


Sarr Nightshade of Kalad, 
    March 15, 1997


