H. Wizard and Mortal Interaction:
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
I know most people hate specific rules, but this file contains the basic
DON'Ts that apply to all wizards.  And, just because something
isn't listed here, doesn't mean that it's ok. Use common sense, and if
in doubt, don't do it. :)

1) Wizards should only be in the presence of mortals when:
   -There is a commune from a mortal about a bug in the domain.
   -There is a commune from a mortal and there is no one else to respond.
   -There is a mortal friend with whom you wish to speak. (See section #3,
    below, for instructions about socializing with mortals.)

2) In the event that you are in the presence of a mortal, remember that
   the following actions are illegal, and may result in either demotion,
   expulsion from the domain, or erasure, depending on the severity of
   the infraction:
   -Do not assist mortals in combat.
      If you arrive in a room and a monster attacks you, you must leave
      until the fighting is over; or go invis, and 'stop hunting'.
   -Do not give quest assistance to mortals.
      Period. No hints, no updating rooms, etc. If mortals have problems
      with a quest that might be buggy, direct them to mail the appropriate
      domain with their problem, or refer them to an Archwizard currently
      logged in.
   -Do not discuss 'wizard information' with mortals.
    This means:
      Do not give out information on mortal, npc, weapon, or armour stats.
      Do not discuss recent changes in Genesis, nor its politics.
      Do not give information about one mortal to another.
   -Do not 'trans' mortals from rooms.
      If mortals are trapped in a room due to a bug, you may move them to
      a room nearby. Beware mortals wanting a trans out of a room in which
      they are fighting monsters or other mortals. Doing this can cost you
      your wizardhood.
   -Do not restore items which mortals have lost.
      This restriction includes what we call game 'crashes'.
      If a mortal has lost an item, instruct him/her to mail the Player
      Archwizard for restoration.
   -Do not play pranks on mortals. Interference with mortals is a demotable
    offence. This means:
      Do not chase them with npc's.
      Do not destruct them.
      Do not call changes to their descriptions.
      Do not 'force' them to perform an action.
      Do not use 'echo' to make it look like they have done something.
      Do not use 'echo' or 'emote' to make it appear that something is
        being done to them.
   -Do not give items/objects to mortals.
      Anything a mortal has in his/her inventory must be earned by killing,
        questing, or joining a guild.
      Making items for specific mortals is illegal, especially ones that
        are autoloading/rebootable.
      Testing of objects should be done with your junior characters, NOT
        with mortals.

3) Socializing with Mortals.
   New wizards tend to have more friends in the mortal realm than they do
     here in the Immortal realm. It is understood that there are occasions
     when you (as a wizard) will want to associate with them.
   It is best not to trans mortals around, but if a conversation is private,
     you can talk someplace quiet, ie your workroom. Be sure to return
     them to where they originally were (trans -r <player> does this for
     you). Never ever trans a mortal to an area that has not yet been
     opened to mortals, even if you only intend to talk to them. Use
     your workroom for such instances.
   Note that all the rules regarding mortal and wizard interactions apply.

4) Posting notes on Mortal Boards.
   Wizards of Ansalon are encouraged to read mortal board, especially 
     those in Krynn and Ansalon. Reading these boards is fine, but 
     there are some guidelines you must follow when posting notes
     on mortal boards.
   
   There are few cases when it is appropriate for wizards to post
     notes on mortal boards, though. One case would be a response to
     a note directed towards the wizards. It's usually best to leave
     the responding to whoever can best answer the question with
     all the facts, an understanding of the topic from the point
     of view of Genesis wizardry, and an understanding of what is
     appropriate for the mortals to know and not know. If you think 
     this person is you, then you may respond to the note. Just use
     common sense.
   It is important to remember that the mortals' views
     of wizards should remain as constant as possible. As you may
     have noticed, for the purpose of game quallity and roleplaying,
     wizards present a unified front of mysteriousness and certainty
     to mortas. This means that you should not blatantly disagree
     with or flame other wizards on mortal boards. We wizards have our
     own boards to do that with. We disagree quite often, but we do it
     behind closed doors, and present our view to the mortals as one
     when we make a decision. Also, do try not to appear ignorant
     on mortal boards. Wizards are supposed to be powerfull and 
     all-knowing. If you don't know the answers to questions on boards
     like "Why did the game crash last night?", leave it to someone
     who does, rather than responding with "I don't know, but maybe...".
     If you do not understand why it is important to the game that
     wizards appear unified and omnipotent to mortals, I'd be happy
     to explain it to you- just ask.
   Even more importantly, I will try to explain when it
     is inappropriate to post notes on mortal boards due to unecessary
     wizard involvement in mortal affairs. In most cases, mortals
     post notes on boards to interact with each other. We wizards
     also have boards for our own similar purposes. Mortals cannot
     read wizard boards for obvious reasons. It is important that 
     wizards read mortal boards, so we can know how mortals feel about
     things and make game decisions with their opinions in mind.
     It is also very important, though, that we do not get involved
     with or influence the mortal world by adding our own views to
     their discussion. If mortals are having a discussion about
     the possitive and negative aspects of Pfighting, for example,
     on one of their boards, it is very important that no wizard
     voice his/her own view on the matter. Doing so is considered
     over-imvolvement in mortal affairs. We must allow them to discuss
     things among themselves. We don't have to agree or disagree, but
     we try not to get involved. There are a few cases when it becomes
     necessary for wizards and mortals to communicate on boards, but
     when the topic involved is clearly a mortal affair, mortals should
     be the only ones posting notes.


