
GENESIS DOMAINS AND THEIR THEMES
================================
Genesis is extremely large and grows larger by the day.

As individual Domains grow, some of them, particularly the dynamic non-
book-based Domains, find themselves struggling to maintain uniqueness of 
Theme and implementation of ideas.  This is not an easy task.  It is made 
more difficult when there are Domains whose themes, ideas, and projects 
are not clearly outlined in commonly available documents.  Additionally, 
difficulties arise when wizards decide to pursue tangents which are un-
related to the original Theme stated upon the Domains' founding.


An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.  

To prevent the occurance of Theme or Project encroachment by one Domain 
of another, we are asking a few things of the Lieges, particularly those 
of non- and quasi- book based Domains:

   -Please be sure that the /d/Domain/open/README or other document 
    which outlines the Theme as well as current and future projects 
    is up-to-date.

   -Please update your Domain idea documents (if you have any) and 
    inform the AoD of the path.

   -Please post on the Lords board and/or inform the AoD of any 
    projects which are in-progress or under consideration -if- these 
    projects will be pursuing an idea which is questionably related 
    to the Domain's original Theme or to any other Domain's Theme. 

   -Please read the documentation available in other Domains' open 
    dirs.  If you know what others are doing or planning, there is 
    less chance of unintentional overlap of another Domain's themes 
    or projects.

   -If you are duplicating another Domain (or feel that another 
    is doing so) please inform the AoD and speak to the Liege of 
    that Domain.  If the conversation (with the other Liege) does 
    not meet your expectations, or if you are not comfortable with 
    speaking to that Liege, then please approach the AoD for help
    in resolving the issue.


Doing the above insures early detection of Theme and project conflicts 
and overlaps.  The AoD should (hopes to) be familiar enough with the 
themes of the various Domains to know whether code or ideas duplicate or
infringe upon another Domain's theme and projects.  Should this occur, 
there are four possible outcomes:

   -One, the Liege of the Domain (hereafter referred to as Domain 
    Aa) with 'rights' to the theme/idea may offer to include the 
    code (and possibly the coder) in question into the Domain.  

   -Two, the Liege of Domain Aa may relinquish exclusive rights 
    to the theme or idea, in which case it may be pursued by the 
    other Domain (hereafter referred to as Domain Bb)--providing
    that this arrangement has the approval of the AoD and Keeper.

   -Three, if the files in question have been opened to mortals,
    they may be permitted to remain 'open' in Domain Bb, providing 
    the code is altered to minimize Domain Aa's thematic objections.  
    This must be done in consultation with Aa's Liege, and all work 
    along this theme would cease in Domain Bb.  Lack of success in 
    this attempt will lead automatically to outcome Four, below.
    
   -Four, the code in question would be closed in Domain Bb and 
    the wizards told to cease pursuing those ideas.  Should the 
    code remain 'open' or the wizards continue to create along 
    that theme, they, their home Domain, and their Liege may be 
    in jeopardy of discipline or erasure.


This Administration is of the belief that Domains should restrain them-
selves to coding on those projects which are intimately related to the 
Theme or Purpose stated at the time of the Domain's creation.  Any Domain 
which deviates significantly from its original Theme is likely to come up 
for thematic review by the AoD.  Additionally, any Domain which duplicates 
another Domain may be considered redundant, thus unnecessary, and a likely 
candidate for removal. 

Wizards who wish to pursue projects unrelated to their Domains' Themes 
(and that of any other) should petition the AoD for permission to create 
a new Domain (see man domain_creation), since such projects endanger the 
coherency of a Domain. 
        Patchwork quilts are lovely.  Patchwork Domains are not.
