This is Genesis game rules in regard to players vs wizards
----------------------------------------------------------

Players play the game, and wizards construct it. In this document,
'player' is meant to mean mortal player. Wizard players are denoted as
'wizard'. In general, players and wizards should have very little
interaction in any way other than formal or personal roles. Formally,
guildmasters deal quite frequently with mortals and because of this
must take special care to not give out improper information or take
too great a role in the politics of the guild. 

Wizards are encouraged to help with communes if the wizard thinks he
can help the player afflicted. On a personal basis, wizards and
mortals may socialize so long as it is on the mortal's terms. It is
best to avoid popping down in Sparkle and talking to everyone that
happens by, however. In no case should wizards give out information
that the mortal could not find in 'help topics'. Be careful since
experienced players know how to ask questions in a way that they get
information you do not intend to give away.

Juniors			- You should have jr in the game to test your stuff
			  on. You can have him logged on any time and you
			  may manipulate his stats however you want. Just
			  make sure you don't upset the internal book-keeping
			  or get involved with mortals. In all respects the
			  jr is to be regarded as a wizard with the same
			  responsabilities and obligations.

Seconds			- You are allowed to play the game with a normal
			  player. However, this player must have NO contact
			  with your wizard self. Basically this means:

			  You must never be logged on with your second and
			  your wizard at the same time. Not even linkdead
			  with one while active with the other. No advantage
			  can be taken from your wiz alter ego in your
			  player role. A typical demotion offense is to
			  stat other players or monster opponents in the
			  game for later (or immediate) use in your player
			  role.

			  You must never reveal your wizard identity to any
			  mortal or even hint that you are a wizard as well
			  as a player.

			  Due to the extra knowledge you have you must take
			  a passive part in the game. You are not allowed to
			  be a member of a council or become a prominent
			  leader in the game. Your wizard identity is your
		 	  primary identity. When playing becomes more
			  important than coding, you should resign as wizard.

Your domain and seconds - Since your Lord is responsible for your actions
			  in the game, the actions of your second will also
			  reflect on him and on the domain. Because of this
			  it's very much up to the Lord to decide if your
			  spending too much time on your second, or if
			  your second is becoming too prominent in the game.
			  Please read 'wizard_guilds_policy'.
			  
Socializing		- You are allowed a certain amount of contact with
			  mortals in your wizard capacity. However, this
			  contact should be kept to a minimum and be
			  conducted in such a way as not to abuse your
			  priviliges. Being stronger and more powerful
			  might make you think you have the right to let
			  your ego expand at the cost of the players, but
			  that's wrong and will only reduce you to their
			  ranks before long.

			  Personal conversations with mortals should be held
			  in a private room so as not to attract a great deal
			  of player attention. Always be careful not to
			  inadvertently give out info that players are not
			  supposed to have, such as locations of other
			  players or the names of players who might not have
			  introduced themselves on purpose. Talk to them
			  one at a time and you'll avoid most problems.

Snooping                - Compromising someone's privacy is an action of 
                          some significance even in MUDs. If you are going 
                          to snoop someone, make sure you have a valid reason. 
                          A high instance of snooping for a wizard who cannot 
                          give believable justification such as working as an 
                          arch helper, for instance, may look suspicious. Also 
                          if you log snoop information make sure you keep it 
                          somewhere as private as possible and keep exchange 
                          of the information to the minimum number of people 
                          necessary.

Helping mortals		- No. Nothing. Zip. If they lose equipment and ask
			  you about it, tell them to contact the AoP through
			  his office east of the post office in Sparkle.
			  Direct help with quests, numerical stats or ANY
			  kind of information they themselves can't get is
			  a no-no. I.e. if they can't find it for themselves,
			  that's the way it's supposed to be. General help
			  on how the game is played, e.g. 'How do I compare
			  my stats with monsters?', is ok, but 'Where would
			  I find a good sword?' is not.

Help from mortals	- If you have a nice new piece of equipment, and
			  perhaps a few new rooms you'd like a second opinion
			  on, get the help from a fellow wizard. If you get
			  a mortal to help you the inevitable result will be
			  that he gains unfair advantages or gets bugged,
			  usually both.

Posting                 - Both on in-game boards and in out-of-game forums
                          and websites, you represent the wizard community.
                          We do not engage in antagonistic arguments with,
                          use put-downs or disrespectful language towards,
                          or act like a jerk toward others, be they mortals
                          or fellow wizards. Be yourself, but err on the
                          side of polite and professional. Wizards should
                          not publicly disagree with one another on boards
                          or websites that mortal players can read. 


Consequences of the above
-------------------------

This varies a LOT. If it's an obvious mistake, it's nothing - forget
it. If it's intentional and we deem you salvagable you'll probably be
let off with a severe warning. However, usually you get kicked out. So
think before you act.

Oh, being kicked out sometimes also results in having your entire site
locked out or even blocked if we think there's any risk of reprisals
or stupid stunts like that...

A small note based on empirical evidence
----------------------------------------

Right after being promoted to wizhood it's very tempting to want to run
out to your mortal friends to flaunt your new abilities.

A simple word of advice: Don't.

The only thing that'll happen is that you'll do something you shouldn't,
and as all newbie wizards are kept under a certain level of surveillance
(due to the above fact) you'll be discovered IMMEDIATELY and perhaps
demoted out of the game. Not fun. Resist the temptation and wait a few
days until you know what's allowed and not. The rules might look clear
and sensible but it's _very_ easy to run aground on a technicality or
perhaps just due to over-enthusiasm.
