Wizard second's in Guilds.

   1. A Liege's second may join an occupational guild in
      their domain or a guild they are guild master of only 
      with special permission from AoD, and this could change
      with a change in AoD.
      
   2. A wizard's second may join layman, race, craft guilds
      in their domains with the following conditions.
         a. The wizard must gain special permission from their
            Liege to join guild. (Liege will document this 
            with AoD.)
         b. Permission is not guaranteed and it is a 
            case-by-case basis.             
            
   3. A wizard's second may join an occupational guild in their
      domain, or a guild that they are guild master of with the
      following conditions.
         a. The guild in question must be in maintenance 
            mode only.
         b. No active coding or updating can be going on.
         c. You may only have one second join.
         d. The wizard must gain special permission from their 
            Liege to join guild.
         e. The Liege must gain special permission from AoD to 
            join guild. (This will be documented with AoD.)
         f. Permission is not guaranteed and it is a 
            case-by-case basis.            
    
    4. Extra conditions that apply to the above.
         a. Due to the extra knowledge you have you must take 
            a passive part in the guild.*
         b. You are not allowed to be a member of a council or
            become a prominent leader in the guild.*
         c. Your wizard identity is your primary identity.*
         d. When playing becomes more important than coding, 
            you should be prepared to resign as wizard.*
         e. The Liege must monitor their wizard's activity to 
            ensure abuse does not occur.            
         f. If at anytime abuse is suspected the second must 
            leave the guild in question and placed on suspension
            until investigated and will not be allowed to rejoin
            the guild.
         g. If abuse is validated, deletion of mortal character 
            will happen and possible wizard deletion as well, 
            this will be a case-by-case decision.

   For wizards who reside in a domain where there is not a Liege it
will be up to the AoD to make the decision and monitor.

   At no time is this a guarantee that a wizard's second will be
allowed to stay in guild if a new Liege takes over the domain or
if a Liege becomes inactive.

   A wizard's second may have to leave guild or be suspended from
playing the second if the Liege of the domain becomes inactive
and can no longer monitor. This will be a case-by-case decision
by AoD.

* This is also applies to wizard's second(s) in any guild whether
in their own domain or in another.
