The Arch Helper
===============

General
-------

The Helper position is not a true ranked position in Genesis. That is
to say he is not a special kind of wizard, he doesn't have a special
pretitle or level. Any type of full wizard can be a Helper in addition
to the rank he holds, though it does take a full wizard to be a Helper;
type WIZ_NORMAL or higher.

Helper in Admin
---------------

The Helper is not a member of the administration proper. He does not
speak for the administration, or indeed even for the Archwizard to
whom he is associated in general matters. The Helper can only make
specific decisions in the area he is assigned to. Any rules or sweeping
policy decisions is set down by the Archwizard. The helper must defer
to the Arch any decisions in matters that affect other wizards directly.

For instance this means that a HAoB will not make reports to the
domains directly, all his findings must go to the AoB who in turn will
read and sign the report before handing it on, in his name. The HAoP
can not on his own decide that all mortals who gained too much
experience due to a perhaps badly coded monster should be adjusted to
a lower level, this has to be settled by the AoP himself.

What the Helper does
--------------------

The kind of work the Helper does is defined by the arch he is helping
in the file '/d/Gensis/doc/help/wizard/helper' so that any wizard
easily can perform the command 'help helper' to find out what he's
doing. The info file of a helper should contain a statement saying
that he is a helper and to which Arch he is assigned.

The work description also defines what the wizard community can call
upon the Helper to do for them (if anything). The descirption should
be pretty general and not differ between two Helpers for the same Arch.

Naturally a lot of flexibility must be allowed the Arch in the matter
of the responsabilities of the Helper. However, it must be recognized
that the Helper can't speak for the Administration or the Arch
himself. It must not be seen as if the administration randomly can
expand or shrink with no prior notice, that a Helper wizard suddenly
pops in to a Lord and demands changes in the domain code or perhaps
even rearrangement of the domain members.

The amount of helpers in the game
---------------------------------

The Keeper decides what number of Helpers a certain Arch may recruit.
In practice however, the Keeper will naturally listen to the views
brougth forth by the Arches. The number of helpers can differ from
Arch to Arch.

Duration of Helper position and choise of specific Helper
---------------------------------------------------------

The Arch decides how long a Helper remains a helper just as he decides
what they do. However, to change Helpers often might prove confusing
to the wizard community, so a certain amount of continuity is indeed
recommended.

The Arch may ask anyone he pleases to become Helper. If the chosen
wizard turns out to be a generally disliked and distrusted person this
will be matter of discussion between the Arch and the Keeper, not over
the chosen Helper but over the reason of this choise and need not be
mentioned here.

The LC might want to bring up the matter of unsuitable Helpers to the
admin and should then naturally contact the Arch in question first
before calling in the Keeper (which really shouldn't be necessary at all).

Helper implementation
---------------------

As stated the Helper can be an ordinary wizard, which means he needs
special handling in the mudlib in order to work. Most of that can be
solved with simple sanctions. Extra read/write priviliges can be
implemented as special Helper tools with extended priviliges in the
areas of interest that the Helper works in. The Arch naturally must
remember to remove these sanctions and special objects later when the
Helper is returned to normal status.
