Genesis is administrated by a team of volunteer developers called
wizards. The wizards are managed by the administration of Genesis.

The Admininstration, or Admin, consists of the Keeper and six 
Archwizards with different responsibilities.

Keeper
-------
The Keeper, "keeps" this place on track and is the person in charge 
of the overall development of Genesis. The Keeper also appoints
and manages the Archwizards.

Archwizards (usually called Arches)
------
Arch of Domains, AoD
Arch of Balance, AoB
Arch of Players, AoP
Arch of Gamedriver, AoG
Arch of Mudlib, AoM
Arch of Events, AoE

The Archwizard of Domains (AoD): The AoD works as a global project manager 
for wizards and makes sure any new content added to the game is of high 
quality and follows the story, theme and style of the domain it is added 
to. The AoD also manages the Lieges, which are the wizards in charge of 
specific areas (domains) in the game.

The Archwizard of Balance (AoB): The AoB is in charge of maintaining the 
balance of guilds, items, domains, and all the other numerous systems in 
Genesis.

The Archwizard of Players (AoP): The AoP assists players of the game with 
any questions or issues they may have, but also deals with cheating and 
other player-related problems.

The Archwizard of Gamedriver (AoG): The AoG is in charge of maintaining the 
gamedriver, which is the beating heart of Genesis. The gamedriver is the 
server software that runs the entire game.

The Archwizard of Mudlib (AoM): The AoM Controls the Mudlib, which in short 
can be explained as the thing that defines how the world of Genesis is 
presented to the players, and how the players interact with the world.

The Archwizard of Events (AoE): The AoE is responsible for creating and 
running so called "events", which are one time special games/quests/
interactions moderated by wizards. 

All arches can also assign other wizards to their "arch teams" in order
help them with their particular responsibilities. So, for example the
Arch of Balance usually have a number of other wizards in their team to
help out with game balance. Only the Arch is member of the admin and 
the other wizards in the team usually works on their own projects as 
well. Some wizards are members of several teams.

You can find a list of the current admin and all active wizards by 
visiting the below website. It is automatically updated, so the
information there is always relevant.

https://www.genesismud.org/wizards.php
