Robot Behaviour:
================

  Automation designed for UNATTENDED control of the character is unwelcome
  in Genesis. This being said, not all types of botting are bad for the 
  game. Here, therefore, are specifics on various types of botting and the 
  consequences.

  IDLE-BOTTING: Idle-botting occurs when a player uses timed automated
                commands to prevent them from being logged out even if
                they are idle longer than the idle time limit (See
                <help idle>). Formerly, it was considered illegal to idle
                bot with good gear in your inventory (back when items 
                did not automatically save at logout.) This is no longer
                the case, and it is now permitted to idle-bot, even if you
                have good gear. Stay in the game as long as you like! :-)
    
  FORGE-BOTTING: Forge-botting occurs when a player uses triggers to
                 continually forge without stopping, thus generating
                 large amounts of items that can be sold for money, and
                 increasing their smith skills.

      1st offense: A warning.
      2nd offense: Removal of all smith skills, removal of smith guildstat,
                   forged items destroyed.
      Beyond this: All your general experience and half your combat experience
                   removed, no death recovery. Smith skills and guild stat
                   will also be removed and forged items destroyed.

  HERB-BOTTING: Herb-botting is much like forge-botting, but occurs when
                a robot is set up to scour large areas of Genesis for
                herbs, resulting in huge herb stores and general experience.

      1st offense: A warning.
      2nd offense: All herbs and spell components created using herbs
                   destroyed.
      Beyond this: All your general experience and half your combat experience
                   removed, no death recovery. Herbs and spell components 
                   created using herbs destroyed.

  COMBAT-BOTTING: Combat-botting is the robot style that is the most harmful
                  to the game. It occurs when a player sets up client
                  triggers which allow the character to fight endlessly
                  gaining massive experience. Most often this occurs in
                  a team (who can protect and guide the bot) but it can
                  also be set up for solo play.

      1st offense: A warning.
      2nd offense: Death, no recovery, loss of equipment.
      Beyond this: Deletion (including removal of all combat experience).
  
  GENERAL-BOTTING: For extreme clarity with respect to botting any 
                   automated activity that gains a player a benefit of any
                   kind shall be considered botting if they are not present at
                   the keyboard.
				   
      1st offense: A warning.
      2nd offense: Removal of the benefit gained.
      Beyond this: Deletion (including removal of all combat experience).
  
  All punishments are character based, not player based.
  
  Be warned. Wizards will actively test players to see if they are botting, 
  and the ways of doing this will vary. All tests will however be very easy
  to pass for someone at the screen, but if you do not watch your screen for
  extended periods of time you will always be at risk.

  Note: The automated captcha test is one of several ways to test for
  bots, and should you for some reason have trouble with the test, even if
  you are at the screen, simply use the <commune all> command to alert
  wizards that you are indeed playing actively.

  Also, remember, triggers are NOT illegal! The above types of scenarios
  are only illegal if the bots are unattended. If you are actively
  watching the screen (in other words, playing the game) script without
  fear!

