NAME
        Race-undead

SYNOPSIS
        This is not a command, simply information.
        
DESCRIPTION
        Since becoming undead is a complete transformation of your mind and 
        body you will remember nothing of your old racial abilities. As an 
        undead you will be granted the following preset racial abilities 
        instead:

        Stalwart
            You will be able to carry heavier loads than other people before
            becoming encumbered by it.
            
        Good memory
            You will be able to remember twenty-five percent more names 
            compared to other people.
            
        Being undead also means you will have other undead-specific benefits
        and drawbacks.

        Undead benefits
            - You will be immune to poison.
            - You will have natural darkvision.
            - You cannot drown.
            - You will have increased fatigue regeneration.
            - All forms of death magic will heal you instead of damage you.
            - You cannot be stunned. Note that this generally only applies 
              to effects that prevent you from fighting. It usually does not 
              apply to effects that paralyze you completely or stop you from 
              moving.

        Undead drawbacks
            - Your undead body cannot process any food or herbs. This means
              that you will not be able to eat anything at all and you will 
              not be able to consume herbs in other ways either, for example 
              by smearing, chewing, etc.
            - You will not be able to drink, which means you will not get any
              benefit from alcohol or other drinks. The only exception is
              magical potions that can be quaffed.
            - You will be harmed by all kinds of healing spells (except the
              ones that use death magic).
            - You will be extra vulnerable to life magic.

        If you stop being undead you will return to your old race and the 
        benefits and drawbacks of being undead goes away. You will also get 
        your old racial abilities back.

SEE ALSO
        races, rabilities, race-human, race-elf, race-dwarf, race-hobbit, 
        race-gnome, race-goblin, race-ogre.
