NAME
        Races

SYNOPSIS
        This is not a command, simply information.

DESCRIPTION
        Core Races
            Genesis has six so-called core races, meaning these are the races
            that can be selected when a new character is created. The six
            races are human, elf, dwarf, hobbit, gnome, and goblin. All races
            are equally strong in terms of stats, however, their different
            racial abilities set them apart. 
            
            Each race has six different racial abilities and you may select 
            any two of them. Some abilities are unique while others are
            shared between some races. For example, both elves and hobbits
            can be 'fleet-footed' while only gnomes can be 'well-connected'.
            
            To learn more about the abilities of the different races, please 
            see <help race 'race name'>. For example <help race-human>, <help 
            race-elf>, etc.
        
            To see which racial abilities you currently have, simply use the
            command <rabilities> or <ra>.

        Sub-races
            In addition to the core races it is possible to be transformed
            into many different sub-races by joining specific guilds. For
            example, a hobbit can be transformed into a halfling or a kender 
            by joining the appropriate guild, however, doing so will NOT 
            change the core race. So, a hobbit that has become a halfling will
            look like a halfling but will keep their hobbit abilities. There
            are two exceptions to this, namely the ogre and undead sub-races.
            These two sub-races completely transform a character so that
            nothing of the old race remains. Please see <help race-ogre> and
            <help race-undead> to learn more about these unique sub-races.

        Changing race
            Changing sub-race is usually as simple as leaving the guild that 
            transformed you in the first place. Changing core race can only
            be done by selecting a new body when you die, and also comes with 
            the additional cost of losing half of your skills. However, 
            changing your core race does not come with a penalty in the
            tutorial area. If you are in the tutorial area you can simply
            visit the library to change your race without penalty.

        Changing racial abilities
            If you want to keep your core race but change your racial 
            abilities you can do so by selecting a new body when you die. 
            Simply select the same race and you will get to reselect your 
            abilities. Since you are selecting a new body you will of course
            still suffer the additional penalty of losing half of your 
            skills. Changing abilities is, just like race change, without 
            penalty in the tutorial area.       

SEE ALSO
        rabilities, race-human, race-elf, race-dwarf, race-hobbit, race-gnome, 
        race-goblin, race-ogre, race-undead.
