                       Guide for Wizards in Calia Domain

     This document is intended to provide information for wizards who are
thinking of applying to the Calia domain, or in some cases mortals who are
expected to wiz and will have a strong preference for applying to Calia. This
guide is not to be distributed freely. A number of topics will be covered, all
of which are important, so if this document is applicable to you, please be
diligent and read it right through. Please direct comments and typo reports to
the Liege of Calia.

                                The Calian Theme

     Those who are not familiar with the story of Calia should first read the
Calian Chronicles. As of July 2016 the Chronicles still exist only in
outline form. The outline contains all the key components of Calian history, 
so you can understand the story completely from reading it. The resulting prose 
and verse are merely for fleshing out details of the individual characters and 
adding some depth and emotional content to the adventures.

     So, what is special about Calia? Does it have the background depth of
Gondor? Not really; we're not in the business of creating another Lord of the
Rings cycle. Does it have the background breadth of Krynn? Of course not, there
is so much Dragonlance material about that there's enough to base entire MUDs
on, let alone a domain. So, where does Calia come in, compared to these other
great domains that are so well supported by written material?

     Basically, Calia offers a strong thematic framework in which to exercise
your creativity. You will notice that the Chronicles end at a point which is
"twenty years ago" in present-day Genesis terms. The adventures therein provide
a direction for the domain to evolve but not a lot of restrictions. While there
are specific places, organizations, and characters defined in the text, there
is ample room to add more of these as long as the additions do not directly
conflict with the Chronicles (for example, you simply cannot create an "ancient
king" of the entire domain). However, other original-idea domains offer similar
environments - why would you choose Calia over them?

     First of all there is our theme: the centre of Calia is and always will be
the guild of Calian Warriors, the guardians of a fledgling civilization with
its back to the wall, fighting a menace that marries barbaric cruelty with the
sorcerous stealing of free will. There is the additional twist that while the
enemies of Calia were defeated in the Great Battle over twenty years ago, their
threat was not completely purged. The exact strength and intention of the
enemies is unknown to the mortals of Calia, nor is it always which residents of
the land are plotting with them. This continuing threat should lead to plenty
of opportunities for high adventure, desperate battles, and a variety of roles
for the mortals to play.

                          What's been achieved so far?

     Glykron, gallant white horseman and father of Calia, coded the Crystalline
Palace of Caliana. Calia spent many years as this single palace for one reason
or another. It survived because the guild was essentially a fine one, and
because of some particularly fine role-playing and support by Calian mortals.
But it was just surviving. Merlin and Deinonychus applied their creative genius
to the domain and were the first to really take up the task of expanding the
lands of Calia. They designed the great town of Gelan and coded a large part of
it before succumbing to real-life work pressures (it happens to us all
eventually). About this time Zima, Hierophant of Argos, was opening the first
parts of the lands around Argos, and Maniac joined Calia after setting what he
foolishly thought was a wiz-time speed record.

     A few months after making various improvements to the Calian guild, 
Maniac was rewarded(?) with the job of Liege of Calia. After becoming liege 
Maniac turned most of his attention to coding the commercial rooms in Gelan 
and finishing a number of half-completed projects there. Gelan was completed 
and opened a few months later, and over a subsequent period the guild, town 
and palace had more additions. Zima opened more of the lands around Argos. 
The new wizards Amelia and Jaacar provided fresh enthusiasm and coding aid, 
assisting Maniac in restructuring central Calia as a land with a geography 
and fleshed out history rather than a palace connected to a town, and yet 
more features were added to the Calian guild and the palace by Maniac and 
Glykron.

     Many new quests were added by Zima in Argos and Maniac in central Calia
and Gelan, resulting in a reasonable share of the net mortal brain strain in 
Genesis. Then the Calian foothills were opened by Maniac, offering a new breed 
of kroug considerably more lively and unpredictable than the ancient but 
esteemed originals. Jaacar and Quintas put a creative effort into the planning
and coding of an ambitious water area on the west coast, which opened to lavish
mortal praise. Metro Argos opened, and kroug raids began to strike the palace,
after the nasties finally worked out how to march up to the palace, burst
through the crystalline doors and wreak havoc while harried by large groups of
Calians and other assorted defenders.

     In late 1996 the Elemental Worshippers Guild was opened by Jaacar. Shortly
thereafter, Maniac was promoted to Arch of Domains. Uhclem took over the
position of Liege of Calia and continued to focus his efforts on the Calian
Chronicles. He also worked on a project to map Calia in "rational" terms to
assist in the design of new areas. Other guilds have opened in Calia (Spirit
Circle of Psuchae, Cadets, Academics to name a few) since that time. 

                              What's in the cards?

     The outline of the Chronicles has been made available to mortals and the
wizard community at large for comments. There are quite a few specific clubs 
and guilds mentioned and there will be an extraordinary number of projects ready 
to be taken over by eager wizards. Uhclem hoped that the outline would inspire a 
number of other new projects in the domain, and it was his intention to maintain 
a balance between assigning coding projects based on specific elements in the 
Chronicles and projects suggested by the wizards themselves. He also felt confident 
that the text, choppy and terse as it is in its current form, would provide members 
of the Calian Warriors Guild with many new and rewarding variations in roleplaying.

                       Requirements of a wizard in Calia

     Imagination and enthusiasm are critical. If you're not keenly interested
in seeing the world of Calian brought to life and adding your own adventures to
it, why bother applying here? Proficiency in coding also has its importance,
but if you put in some effort and pay attention, you'll learn the technical
side soon enough - this is not an area you should worry about when considering
wizhood. There are some other areas of Calian wizard life that can cause
problems if there's any misunderstanding. These are highlighted below. Read
these sections carefully and be sure you understand them before you apply to
Calia:

********** Productivity

     It is very important that a Calian wizard is active. True, it is
acceptable for a wizard who has already contributed much to the domain to not
be particularly active if there are reasons such as heavy real-life
commitments, and nobody is required to work like a horse, but there
is nothing more likely to get a Liege peeved than a terminally inactive wizard.
You will not be driven like a slave, and it is understood that there will be
periods in your life when other commitments will take you out of the game for a
while, but it is the Liege's understanding that when you apply you are willing
to commit a portion of your time regularly to Calia.

     Once you've settled in, you can discuss with the Liege exactly what your
project will be, and then begin work on it. If you are an inexperienced wizard,
the Liege may work with you to develop a detailed project plan so that the two
of you are quite clear on the size and scope of the project. More experienced
wizards may only have to provide a general description of the project. Get to
know your fellow Calian wizards and ask them for help - they're a friendly lot.
Productive wizards can expect promotion at some point, the respect of fellow
wizards and often the adoration of mortals too.

********** Integrity

     Know the rules and stick to them. There are a whole new bunch of rules to
being a wizard in addition to those of being a mortal. Becoming familiar with
them is very important. Check out ~Genesis/doc/rules/wizard/ now if you haven't 
already!

     Does this sound heavy? Well, there are reasons. This domain has been hit
by cheating in the past. If you ever get the temptation, just remember that
cheating on this mud is a violation of trust and a slap in the face of every
wizard who has worked hard to make the mud was it is. It can hurt people, just
as you might hurt someone by acting in an untrustworthy way in real life.

     A word about carelessness here, too. Be very careful about the
implications with whatever you do as a wizard. It's possible to make mistakes
that allow mortals to benefit, and these can look very suspicious, and
can result in big problems for all in the domain. Think carefully about what 
you are doing as a wizard. Carelessness can make the whole domain look bad.

     Beyond the risk of cheating or of inadvertently causing problems, there is
an additional requirement of integrity: adhering to the spirit as well as the
letter of the rules. It is not the intention of this domain to push the limits
of, find loopholes in, or otherwise "bend" the rules of Genesis. If you have an
idea about which you are unsure if it is consistent with the rules, bring it to
the Liege's attention before you do any work on it. The Liege will present it
in the appropriate forum and get a ruling. If you are informed that your idea
is not acceptable, discussions, counter-proposals, and compromise are all
possible; trying to sneak your idea into code is not.

********** Learning

     Another requirement is that you set aside time to learn - the learning
process goes on right throughout a wizard's career. Other wizards will do their
best to answer questions and to help out of course, but you should be prepared
to make an effort to read "man", "sman" and "help" entries wherever applicable.
The use of sman -k *keyword* and man -k *keyword* can save a lot of time!
Reference to example code, wherever it may be found, is extremely useful.
Become familiar with the use of various logs for debugging. Later on when you
are more confident, consulting the source code in the mudlib will be very
useful to you, and some knowledge of the gamedriver is useful too.

********** Planning

     Planning is more important than coding!

     More time should go into planning an area, guild, quest or whatever than
goes into coding it. Proper planning improves quality of work enormously and
leads to good documentation and good coding. Put plenty of effort into planning
and you will get far better results.

     As an example, the Calian Chronicles represent a high-level plan for the
entire domain. As of December 1996 they had been in production for an entire
year and are still only in outline form. This may seem excessive, but the care
and effort put into this document means that the chances of errors and
inconsistencies has been minimized. In the future, wizards will be able to use
sections of the Chronicles as a models for their projects with confidence.

********** Boards

     Every wizard of the Calia domain is required to keep informed about what
is going on in Genesis and is encouraged to participate in discussions that
interest them. Learn to use mbs and subscribe to the following boards at least:
news, mudlib, lpc, idea, info, domain, and discuss.

********** Coding standards

     All Calian wizards should made their code clear and easy to read and as
efficient as possible. This means indentation, comments (in particular a header
at the top to say what the file is for), and learning a good style of coding. A
good style of coding will of course only come through the learning process, but
always take care to plan code carefully before you write the source code!

********** Mortal seconds

     Calian wizards may have mortal seconds as long as they do not break the
global Genesis rules on seconds, and as long as the mortal really IS a second
(i.e. much less time and effort should be put into playing the mortal than the
wizard). All mortal seconds must be listed using the "second" command. Only
those with rights to snoop you will see who those seconds are, so you don't
have to worry on that score.

********** The rights to distribute code

     All wizards of course have the right to let non-Calian wizards see their
own code, but in the case of other Calian wizards' code, requests to see it
should be redirected to the original coder or the wizard responsible for that
code. In the case of common code, the request should be redirected to the
Liege.

     If you are a wiz on another MUD and are allowed into this domain, you 
should not base code in the other MUD on code in Genesis unless you have 
permission from your Liege. No-one should allow coders from other muds to 
see code without permission from their Liege either.

********** Originality

     Characters, organizations, and events in Calia should be original. Please
don't take an adventure in a favourite book, change the names, and code it as a
quest in Calia. Of course, this does not mean you can't code a knight or dragon
just because there are knights and dragons in existing books. But one of the
great treasures of this domain is its original story, and you may expect to be
rewarded for weaving new and inventive threads into the story as well as for
superb coding of same.

                   If you would like to join the Calia domain

     You will need references from three people, each of whom must either be a
mortal who is known and trusted in Calia (usually Calian warriors or
established members of other guilds) or a wizard of Genesis. This is essential 
unless the Liege of Calia tells you otherwise, as accepting someone
as a wizard is a big step that must be based on trust. Then contact the Liege
of Calia by mail (or "project to" if you are a Calian), and he will have a chat
with you and see what your interests are, how much time you have available,
etc. If you have not yet wizzed then you will have to go through that
application process, but it will help you to have a Liege's support first.

                            If You Are a New Wizard

     This section is only relevant to mortals who are just becoming wizards for
the first time when applying to Calia.

     If you were accepted into this domain, you must have already expressed a
few interesting ideas. What you need now is to learn to turn them into code.
You can begin by taking a look at the LPC manual; you can actually begin coding
simple things after reading just a short portion of it. And that's exactly what
you should do: code a few simple things. Feel free to look at existing domain
code for examples.

     As a wizard you have the ability to change your description and make up a
completely new title for yourself. Please do, keeping in line with the Genesis
theme (no androids or martians, please). Then code up something for yourself to
wear appropriate to your new persona. Keep it really basic at first - you'll
have plenty of chances to improve it - and ask the Liege to comment on it when
you've created the file but before you actually try to load it into memory.
This will be good experience for you in the process of actually implementing
working code in Genesis. Until the Liege tells you otherwise, you are forbidden
to load (use the "clone" command) a file until the Liege has reviewed and
approved it. Be aware that there are some coding errors which can crash the
game - if you load a file during your probationary period without approval and
it has this effect, you may expect dismissal.

     Once the Liege has expressed confidence in the quality and style of your
coding, you may customize your workroom, which should be a step up in
complexity from the simple attire you just coded (unless you really went crazy
with your attire). The Liege may also recommend that you try coding a few other
things, such as rooms, buildings, weapons, npc's, etc. All of these will be for
practice and will not be accessible to mortals. When you have demonstrated an
ability to code properly and express a desire to begin adding to the domain,
you will be assigned your first project and your career as a Calian wizard will
have begun.

********** 

     Written: 15.01.95 by Maniac
     Revised: 25.07.96 by Maniac
     Revised: 02.12.96 by Uhclem
     Revised: 28.07.16 by Jaacar
