Legends & lore
==============

In the morning of the Universe The Creator was standing in Her kitchen
beyond the Galaxies baking doughnuts. They were the best of doughnuts,
warm with lots of sugar, jam and icing. The purpose for which The
Creator baked the doughnuts has been lost in the Eons of time, but most
propably she was going to invite her neighbour Creators to tea.

The Creator had an extremely ugly and greedy little errand boy called
Fatty who had the job of ordering the galaxies, polishing the stars and
other simple tasks. Even though he was ugly and greedy he worked hard
because he knew that he wouldn't get any supper in the Evening of Time
if the job wasn't finished.

So on this very fine Morning of the Universe Fatty went to the cleaning
cabinet in the kitchen of The Creator to get more Starbrite Polish for
Stars and other Celestial Bodies. When he was done in the cleaning
cabinet The Creator had finished baking and left the kitchen. Fatty in
his greed saw the doughnuts and decided to steal them all. If he had just
taken one the whole thing would propably have gone unnoticed, but no,
he had to have them all.

Burdened with the doughnuts, as well as with a small ammount of guilt,
he ran out in the universe to hide and to devour his spoils. The running
however made him very hungry and he stopped, right in the middle of the
Milky Way, and started to wolf down the doughnuts, shoving two and sometimes
even three into his mouth at a time.

At exactly that moment The Creator discovered the theft and her rage shook
the entire galaxy, from the smallest tachyon to the largest of the
galaxy hordes. Fatty who was about to push the last doughnut into his
face managed to drop it right down on the Milky Way.

The doughnut, being round in its character started to roll along the Milky Way,
picking up speed as it rolled past all the little stars and planets.
All ways must come to an end and so does the Milky Way so the doughnut rolled
off right out into the void.

Fatty in turn rushed after the lost food and in his greed and anxiousness
to pick up with the doughnut he stumbled. Fatty, being round in his nature,
also started to roll and went after the doughnut into the void.

The Creator, who by now was less than satisfied with her morning and the
turn of events recreated herself at the end of the Milky Way and looked
sternly into the void.

"You have annoyed me beyond belief and I will punish you for your impunity" her
voice boomed. "You will forever, or until I change my mind, walk the surface
of this my last pastry. There you can spend your days mingling with that
which grows on stale bread. To light your way you will have the bottle
of Starbrite suspended in the middle of the ring."

"My final curse for you is that since you will never be able to eat this
last doughnut you will always go hungry no matter how much you eat" The
Creator finished and turned home to cancel the invitations.

And so it came to pass that the galaxies went unordered and the stars 
unpolished. Fatty walked the surface of Genesis for a long time eating 
directly from the ground in his attempt to satiate his hunger, but as time 
passed the jam separated and became water and soil. The sugar rechrystallized 
into all sorts of minerals and the icing turned to snow and ice. In short
the doughnut turned stale, and as everyone knows, all sorts of things grow
in stale bread. And so the world of Genesis became populated.

