Mortal Rules for Genesis
========================

As a player in the game you are really only expected to have fun, that's
the only thing we want with the game. However, as in any (decent) society
you can't be allowed to have fun at other people's expense. This is in fact
the only rule you must follow. However, as it's a bit vague, let's try to
make things a bit more clear:

Offenses that force us to take immediate action of some kind
-------------------------------------------------------------

Quest runthroughs       - You are not allowed to spoil quests by leading
                          people around by their hands. You cannot do the
                          'thinking' part of the quest for others or tell
                          them exactly where to go and what to do. If you
                          happen to be on a team where another person is
                          doing a quest, the Questor should be the one who
                          leads the team. Hints can be given to people when
                          they become stuck or ask you for help, but be very
                          careful in the type of hints you give to others.
                          For more details, see "help hints", "help quests"
                          and "help cheating".

Multiple users          - One character, one user. Don't share your character
                          with someone else. Do not give your character away
                          to another person for any length of time or for any
                          reason. Do not give out your password to anyone no
                          matter how much you trust them. All that's going to
                          happen is that one of you will do something silly 
                          and try to blame the other. '*wail* It wasn't I who 
                          did that, it was someone else! *baah*' Well, we do
                          not buy that kind of excuse, in fact we might remove
                          your character just to make sure it won't happen a
                          second time. For those who want a definition of what
                          sharing a character is, it means that control of the 
                          character has passed from one user to another, for 
                          any length of time. 

Revealing information   - A lot of players have more that one character they
on player seconds         use for various reasons. It could be different types
                          of role-play, (ie: playing an evil character as well
                          as a good character), various guild affiliations or
                          just a fun character to use when you need to escape
                          the life of your other characters. If you happen to
                          know the names of two or more characters of a single
                          player, keep this information to yourself. Do not go
                          around telling others that so-and-so is a second of
                          such-and-such (be it either a rumour or otherwise).
                          Most people try to differentiate between all their
                          characters. The actions and deeds of one character
                          may not be the same actions and deeds of another.
                          A player may choose to tell you the names of his
                          characters but this should remain confidential to
                          the both of you. It does not give you the right to
                          tell others. If the player wants them to know, he 
                          will tell them himself. Failure to adhere to this 
                          can result in deletion.
                          
Harassment              - If all you can think of as having fun is preventing
                          others from having it, then you don't belong here.
                          Roleplaying is ok, but remember that there is such
                          a thing as common sense and knowing when enough is
                          enough as well!

                          Sexual harassment is something we are particularly
                          unforgiving about. There are very few occasions 
                          where comments/actions related to sexual harassment
                          can be defended as 'roleplaying'. So rather than
                          end up in a situation where we will throw you out,
                          please stick to other modes of expression. True,
                          your character might be one that has that attitude,
                          but in that case we feel we can do without him.

Double login            - You can have several characters, that's ok, but
                          ONLY ONE logged on at a time. This means that a
                          character must be completely logged out before
                          another one can be logged in. Going link-dead
                          with one character and logging in another is
                          considered double-logging and will be treated
                          as such. Depending on how certain we are that 
                          we are right about this, we'll either warn you 
                          not to do it any more or simply remove both of 
                          the characters we suspect is one user. Making a 
                          second character to act as a gopher for your main
                          character (testing purposes, getting things in 
                          the game, posting notes, etc) is abuse of the 
                          privilege of character creation and will be 
                          treated as such.

Taking advantage of     - If you find something that obviously is a bug
bugs in the game          or that you suspect is a bug, you report it as
                          soon as possible. If you try to exploit it, we 
                          will find out about it sooner or later and then 
                          we'll try to set the score right again. If it's  
                          uncertain exactly how much we should adjust we
                          will simply get rid of you.

Robot behaviour         - This game is meant for human players, not for robots.
                          Naturally, you may use a client to make some things
                          easier to do, but it is not acceptable to have large
                          tasks executed by robots while the real player is not
                          paying attention. The same goes for abusing a client
                          to stay idle in the game without being disconnected.
                          If you do not want to enjoy our game interactively,
                          there are many who do. If you are cuaght doing this
                          kind of behaviour, punishment can result in removal
                          of your character.
 
Cheating in general     - This is hard to define at times. All of the above
                          are really different kinds of cheating. Please see
                          "help cheating" for some more pointers. However, if 
                          you search your soul we're sure you will know what
                          is right and what isn't. Common sense can usually
                          be applied with good results to any situation.
                          If in doubt, talk to the player arch or someone
                          more experienced in the game before executing a
                          questionable action.

Recruitment,            - If you're trying to recruit players here to another
advertising & suchlike.   game you are obviously not interested in playing
                          here either, so we'll just get rid of you. Post
                          on internet news instead, there are newsgroups there
                          for that very purpose. Neither are you allowed to
                          try and make use of the game for the advertising
                          of products or services. (Actually this is a very
                          silly rule, but there's some even sillier people
                          who insists on making a nuisance of themselves
                          forcing us to add it).

ICQ/IRC/AOL messaging   - If you use an out of game method to relay information
and the like              such that it benefits a character or guild or
                          causes problems for a character or guild, expect to
                          be punished harshly. Play your character such that
                          he knows only what he has experienced first-hand
                          in the game. 

Consequences of the above:
--------------------------

Well, this really is different depending on the situation and who is
involved. In clear-cut cases we'll simply remove the offending player if
the offense is regarded as severe enough. If the question of guilt is
harder to pinpoint or the offense less, a warning or reduction of the
player status might suffice. In severe cases where the player is a known
troublemaker from a known trouble site, we might even block the entire site
from further playing here rather than face possible future reprisals or
re-occuring events of the same kind.

We don't enjoy doing this, it's the flip side of trying to run a game that
is enjoyable for all. Just remember that it won't stop us from taking
decisive action if we have to. Be fair and honest, it usually works best in
the long run.

General behaviour in the game
-----------------------------

This is a game where you are supposedly impersonating a fantasy character
of one kind or another. You have been allowed to freely choose race, gender
and your general description. The game is designed as much as possible to
support your characterization with guilds and equipment. Please try to take
advantage of this and play your character as well as you can.

The wizards are not supposed to interfere or provide 'out of character' data
(they are demoted from wizhood if they do); information like numerical stats, 
quest info or numerical info about equipment. However, _if_ they do_... well, 
we don't expect you to turn them in but do keep the info to yourself. Don't 
walk around telling it to people since it'll only make us mad and force us to 
investigate and possibly punish someone.

An extra comment in regard to player killing
--------------------------------------------

Since this is a current topic at all times it warrants a bit of an
elaboration here. Player killing is allowed in Genesis. This means that
when a player (any player) gets upset with another player (any other
player) he can attack him with intent to kill. No limits. Be prepared
to account for your actions should you ever attack and/or kill another
player. Just because player killing is allowed, this does not mean that
you can just do it whenever you feel like it. The reasons behind your 
actions must be valid. If the reasons are not valid, then this would be
considered either illegal activities or harrassment.

HOWEVER... if the attacker ...

 o      Attacks significantly weaker players all the time, or often

 o      Attacks the same player all the time, or often

 o      Entices others to attack a certain player

... or elaborations on this theme, this is naturally harassment, see
the special paragraph above about this.

The above does NOT mean you cannot ask others to help you in your quest 
for revenge.  


SEE ALSO
        quests, hints, cheating
