Genesis is administrated by the following crew: (in alphabetical order)

Keepers
Lars            (Honourary)
Tintin          (Game policy and management)

Arches
Boron           (Balance Arch)
Kentari         (Player Arch)
Marvin          (Honourary Cool Arch)
Mercade         (Mudlib Arch)
Mrpr            (Code Arch)
Shadowlynx      (Domain Arch)


From top down:

Lars:
The founder of the game. A rare, but welcome, sight.

Tintin:
He keeps this place on track and defines the policies which concern the
development of Genesis.

Boron:
He is in charge of maintaining the balance of guilds, domains, and the 
numerous systems in Genesis.

Kentari:
He makes sure that the players follow the rules and addresses any concerns
or problems they may have.

Marvin:
No real tasks, except that he maintains the host of Genesis, but he steps in
to add quality features to the game when he so desires. And yes, top-notch
prankster and enfant terrible as well...

Mercade:
He works with the mudlib to make the game more exciting. He is the Mudlib
arch, which means he will be the one to ask if you want to get something
added or do some work there yourself.

Mrpr:
He upholds documentation and code quality in the mudlib and examples. He
also assists new wizards in learning to code and promotes that people help
each other with tricky code.

Shadowlynx:
She administrates the wizards of Genesis, working primarily with the lieges to
ensure that everything runs smoothly in the domains. She is also in charge of
recruiting new wizards, so if you are considering becoming a wizard, talk to
her!


POLICY ON SPECIAL SUBJECTS

Keepers vs. Arches:

The keepers run the game. They define policies (like these) and in general
keep the game going. They have special people helping them in their work;
the arches. In theory, an arch has the same working-power as a keeper, but
in practice you will find that all arches defer fundamental policy-related
questions to the keepers. Arches have certain areas of special interest and
authority. In general, approach an arch before looking for a keeper, they
are busy enough anyway.

Honourary title holders:

These people hold their rank due to old merits. They are all major
contributors to Genesis and mudding in general. Being now retired, they
have no formal tasks, so don't expect anything at all from them.

Disruptive people:

People who cheat, destroy and are abusive are not welcome on Genesis at all.
They will be suspended on sight by the first arch to encounter them. Their
future fate may be decided by the archwizard council, if warranted.
