The In Depth Politics of Kabal
------------------------------

The High Council, which undergoes new membership on no fixed system, consists
of a varying number of seats, ranging from about 10 to 20. The Ruling Seat is
occupied by the Highlord of Kabal, a title held within one noble family and
passed on through the mother's side. Other factions within Kabal's political
structure have differing numbers of seats.
   The Merchant's Guild is a band of the middle class merchants that swarm
most of the city. This guild represents the single streetvendor, the
numerous shopkeepers, the successful businesses, and the artistic tradesmen -
all those who offer goods and services to the public for profit. While each
member is after their own goals, and while these goals often clash, their
common need for political power inspires them to put aside small differences
and elect a group of 3-5 representatives to hold seats on the High Council.
The number of seats and the people who occupy them changes whenever the
members of the Guild are displeased with the representation they have received.
   The Trading Company has a single seat on the High Council, officially
reserved for the chief CEO, but often filled by a diplomatic employee of the
Company. The Kabal Trading Company is the largest and most successful
business in the city, controlling all import and export both to Kalad proper
and foreign domains. This control, and the connections that stem from it,
makes the opinion and sway of this seat an influentual one. The Trading
Company will often block the plans of the Merchant's Guild if the small
business seemed to be profiting too much.
   The Council of Lords hold 5 to 10 seats at the High Council in most normal
circumstances. These people are the patriarches and matriarches of the noble
families that control most of Kabal's economy. Each family has their own
precious valuables, private retainers (that often could be mistaken for a
small army), and a fair size of land outside the city. Not to mention
slanderous information. And while all this power is available and at the
disposal of this formidable group, their internal bickering and family
feuds prevent them from being more than a distraction at the Council table.
   The Temple holds a single seat, occupied by the Highpriest. Almost all of
Kabal worships the temple, in name if not in faith, and the Highpriest has
a moderate amount of pull amongst the common man. The motivations of the Temple
are kept within its own beurocracy, and the direction of its representative
at the High Council is anyone's guess.
   The Shadow Walkers and (perhaps) a group of vigilantes play important
parts in Kabal's political scheme, but they do not have formal power in
Kabal's political structure.

---

   Current situation:

   Usually, the Highlord is a dunce or an idiot, put in power by law and the
manipulations of the Trading Company or the Council of Lords. A prospective
Highlord has been, as a baby or young child, drugged to induce brain damage.
For some reason, no attempt was made on the current Highlord (or such attempts
failed), and he is a devious and brilliant man. But the populace knows little
of this, if anything.
   The Highpriest pretends to be working for the benefit of the Temple. He
sells his vote to the highest bidder.
   The Shadow Walkers represent the even more secret Zintra, master of
assassins. The Shadow Walkers are the mafia-thugs of Kabal, and control
the underground, making offers to citizens they can't refuse. Blakmail,
extortion and asassination is their specialty, and many nobles, priests
and merchants have found ther services invaluable.
