    Political power in Kabal is a complex system. The major
powers in Kabal are :
    - The High Lord of Kabal
    - The Merchant's Guild
    - The Trading Company
    - The Council of Lords
    - The Temple of Solara
    - The Shadow Walker's Guild
    - The Thief-taker's Society
    - The Knights of Thanar

   Kabal is an isolated and nearly impregnable city,
leaving it free from the politics of Kalad. This lack
of supervision has lead to the currupt state of the
city.
   The High Lord of Kabal supposedly has complete
control of the city, but the situation is in reality,
much more complex. He has to answer to the Merchant's
Guild, representing the middle-class tradesmen, and
the Council of Lords representing the nobility.
The sinister Trading Company and the Temple to the
sun Godess Solara, also hold powerful sway that
cannot be ignored. The Shadow Walker's Guild, though
not officially recognized, is allowed to operate
underground, since anyone giving the order to shut
them down would be assasinated.
    The military power of the city is equally complex
The streets are patrolled by the City Militia, Church
soldiers, Trading Company Guardsmen, and the Private
Retainers of the Nobility, not to mention the wandering
press gangs in the Port District. The City Militia
maintains minimal law and order. They are equally likely
to ignore a situation or harass innocent bystanders.
A bribe is usually the best way to insure safety from
the Militia. The Thief-taker's Society, a small
underground band of dedicated vigilantes, try to
right the wrongs left unchallenged by the Militia.
   The Knights of Thanar are a fairly new group of religous 
fanatics that are devoted to the ancient god, Thanar. This 
group is at odds with nearly every other group in the city 
because of the members' obvious hatred of non-humans, a basic
tenet of their religous order. It is rumoured the order has
several hidden enclaves throughout the city.
   There are many different factions in Kabal,
each with their own motivations. Often, these
motivations come in to conflict with those
of other factions. This leads to a lot of intrigue,
providing multiple opportunities for quests.
For example, Sir Delano of House Paullus is
being blackmailed by his rival on the Council of Lords
who has aquired some incriminating evidence about Delano. He is
unable to openly act against his rival for fear of
exposure, so he is looking to hire mortals to steal
the evidence from the estate of his rival and bring
it back to him.
