On the Oldani and Olden's Isle.........

    Centuries ago, the elves of Kalad fought one another in a mighty civil war
The largest single tribe, known as the Drow, were defeated only when all the 
other tribes united under a single banner, and drove them underground. The 
losses to the surface, or Sun Elves were immense, however and they were not
able to recoup their losses before the 'Great Cleansing' of the Thanar was
launched.  Even in their weakened state, the Sun Elves were considered to be
the greatest threat to Thanar supremacy, and were the focus of the first
crusade launched against the non-human races of Kalad.
    The surface elves were of many tribes, and they did not always agree with
one another, but once again, they rallied together to make a brave stand
against this new threat. Their cause was lost however, faced with superior 
numbers of humans, the elves could not withstand the war of attrition, and
were almost utterly destroyed. The only elves to escape this mass-slaughter
were from a tribe known as the Oldani. These warriors had been among the most
savage fighters in the armies of the elves, and the most successful.  The 
Oldani used guerrilla tactics, and were known to easily defeat forces that 
greatly outnumbered them through cunning and devastating surprise attacks.
    The last Oldani warriors, seeing their comrades charging hopelessly into
battle, saw that all hope was lost. Rather than face the extinction of their
race, several of the families in the tribe were chosen (by lots) and loaded
into canoes, and sent into the mighty Kaladian Sea. This was not viewed as
cowardice by those who remained, for they knew that those who departed may well
be facing a cold, watery death rather than dying by the hands of the ruthless
Thanar warriors.
    As the last Oldani fell in battle on the mainland, those who had embarked
on the ocean voyage arrived on what was later to be named Olden's Island. The
Island, for the most part, was uninhabited. There was however a small fishing
village in the Northeastern area of the island that was populated by humans.
These humans were not warlike, and apparently had no knowledge of the Thanar
cult, or it's beliefs in racial extermination.  The Oldani observed the humans
while hidden in the forest, careful never to be seen. They were still highly
distrustful of humans, however they lacked both the numbers and the willpower
after their long voyage to do battle with the villagers.
    As time passed, the Oldani grew to thrive on the island, where enormous
evergreen trees grew in the forest, they were able to rebuild a village in the
tree-tops as they once had on the mainland. They hunted game that grew in 
abundance in the forest, and over time, grew to be a sizeable tribe once more.
The Oldani still have as little contact as possible with the humans on the 
island, they do however, keep the village under constant surveillance.
The Oldani are extremely xenophobic, and have carefully cultivated the belief
in the human villagers that the forest is haunted. Clad in their white
buckskins and swinging on thin ropes through the trees in the forest has added
to the beliefs of the simple villagers that the forest is indeed populated by
ghosts, and more than a few brave men that have wandered too deeply into the forest have never returned.
      Recently, a garrison of Thanarians has arrived on the island, and has set
up a military-stile base in the village. They have convinced the village elders
that they need protection from the evil spirits on the island, and are seeking
to make converts of the villagers to their religion which is currently out of
favor in most of Kalad. the real reason for the garrison's arrival can be
traced back to their underground hideout in Kabal, where the High Priest
has discovered in ancient writings the presence of a temple built by some
lost civilization. In these writings, artifacts of great power are mentioned
numerous times, and the High Priest is eager to get his hands on them.
   Needless to say, the arrival of the Thanarians has heightened tensions in
the Oldani village, who has been totally isolated from the rest of the world
and has no idea of the general mistrust and dislike of Thanar by the rest
of the citizens of Kalad. The Oldani have intercepted several patrols of
Thanar warriors who were searching the forest, and have slain them, rather than
have them report the presence of the elves to their superiors.  These losses
have alarmed the commander of the post, and reinforcements are due to arrive
at any moment...
