       The Unofficial History of the Zintra Order

  The mysterious organization known as the Zintra Order has
had a significant role in shaping the corrupt and chaotic political
system that characterizes modern Kabal. Throughout the recorded
history of Kabal, political figures and organizations that 
threatened to seize absolute power have suffered crippling
assassinations. Each of these victims were marked with a black rose,
the trademark of the Zintra assassins. The result has been an
endless political turmoil in which no group manages to establish a
regime. Rumors say that the Zintra promotes the turmoil
in order to keep the government too weak to interfere with its 
illicit activities.
  The ominous presence of the Zintra has been a reality 
for the citizens of Kabal longer than the memory of the most ancient 
elf in the land. Its origins are shrouded in mystery...it is said 
that few guild members even know the true story. The history that I 
am about to relate to you is legend only, a favorite story told in
hushed voices around dwindling campfires in the black of night.
  -----------------------------------------------------------

  Long ago, Kabal was ruled by a dynasty of monarchs who possessed
absolute power. The ruling family was called Viskaar and produced 
both just and unjust rulers. Unlike now, the streets were patrolled 
by a well-organized and lawful Royal Guard under the Viskaar regime.  
Although the Viskaars tended to be extravagant, the city of Kabal 
prospered from the expanding naval markets and caravan trade across 
Kalad. Many consider this era to be the golden age of Kabal.
  During the rule of Perwin Viskaar, a young man named Zerath from 
the Hespyre Mountains came to Kabal in hopes of becoming a warrior. 
He joined the Royal Guard, and as his skills grew his ambition also 
grew. He soon realized that he could not be satisfied until he won
the position of Viskaar Weaponmaster, the honorary position of 
Kabal's greatest warrior. Although the position was supposedly open
to anyone who could best the current Weaponmaster in a duel, no one
could remember a time when a member of the Viskaar family did not 
hold the position. Zerath did not let this bother him, but trained
relentlessly in every form of combat available to him. When he had  
finally built up a reputation by embarrassing his fellow guardsmen 
in royal tournaments and besting locals in public contests, Zerath
challenged Lyriman Viskaar, the younger brother of King Perwin and
the Viskaar Weaponmaster, to a duel for his title.
  In public appearances around Kabal, the King made it clear that he
saw Zerath as a minor threat to his brother's position. "Lyriman will
make the mountain boy reconsider a career in milking goats!" the King
boasted to a group of listeners.
  When the duel arrived, spectators expecting to see a quick victory
by the massive Lyriman were startled by the blinding dexterity of the
smaller Zerath. The battle lasted only five minutes, ending with 
Lyriman begging for his life at end of Zerath's blade.
  Ecstatic in the realization of his life-long dream, Zerath 
celebrated under the hateful glares of King Perwin. As he slept that
night, Zerath dreamed of the glory that his victory would bring to his
family and hometown.
  The next morning, Zerath was awakened by the heavy thud of iron-shod 
boots as a pack of Royal Guards entered his chambers.  As he rubbed
the sleep from his eyes, he heard one of the guards cry out, "Lo and 
behold, a source of the very poison that slowed Sir Lyriman's reflexes
is hidden in the mountain boy's cloak!" The guard produced a 
a poisonous black rose from the folds of Zerath's cloak. Before he 
finished dressing, the guards seized Zerath and brought him before the 
King for a hasty trial. Despite Zerath's claims that he had never seen 
the poison, the King found Zerath guilty of cheating in the contest 
for Weaponmaster and assaulting a member of the royal family. The 
Weaponmaster title was returned to Lyriman and Zerath was sentenced to
fifty years in the Kabal dungeon. 
  Shortly after his incarceration, Zerath managed to escape from the 
dungeon to the underground network of sewers that were home to most of 
Kabal's criminals. Enraged at being framed for a crime he did not 
commit and having his life ambition yanked from out from under his
feet, he vowed to bring about the downfall of the Viskaar regime.
  Since he knew he would not be able to raise a large enough rebel 
force to overthrow Viskaar, Zerath decided that stealthy and precise
attacks were his only hope for revenge. In search of ever more 
effective fighting styles and new methods of sabotage, he studied 
the techniques used by the most infamous mercenaries and assassins of 
the Kabal underground. In his search, Zerath gained two allies who 
also despised the Viskaar family, Krypter and Quai. Legend says that 
Krypter could hide in an open field surrounded by enemies. In 
addition, it is said there was not a castle in Genesis that could 
keep Krypter out of its treasure room. Quai possessed a more peculiar 
ability. It is said that he could fell the largest beast and mightiest 
warrior in a single deadly blow. 
  Together the three companions learned from each other and developed
a fighting style they called ninjitsu. Although Zerath was consumed
by the desire for revenge, he was patient and awaited the perfection
of ninjitsu.
  A full ten years since the mountain boy had escaped from the 
Kabal dungeon, King Perwin assumed that the convict had fled back to
the mountains to be safe from the Royal Guard. He discovered his 
assumption was wrong when he awoke one morning to find his brother,
Weaponmaster Lyriman, quite dead at the foot of his bed. On the
corpse was a poisonous black rose.
  Terrified for his own life, King Perwin increased his personal
guard to twice its usual number. For months Perwin was a nervous 
wreck as several members of his family were assassinated in a similar 
manner. With the assassination of each Viskaar, Perwin increased his
personal guard. After three months and four assassinations, the force 
had reached ten times its usual number. To no avail. At the beginning
of the fourth month since Lyriman's death, King Perwin was found dead
in his heavily guarded chambers with a single blade wound and a black
rose.
  In the months following Perwin's death, a cousin of Perwin became 
king. When he attempted to wield the power of the crown, he too was
assassinated. Gradually, the Viskaars became impotent in political 
matters and eventually refused to rule. The result is the current
political system of Kabal in which no group wields absolute power.
  As for Zerath, Krypter, and Quai, they started an elite underground 
assassin guild called the Zintra Order to prevent the Viskaars from 
regaining power. Zintra is the name of a mythical beast in Kabal 
lore that fed on humans in the dead of night. It is said that once the
Zintra had chosen its next supper, no mortal could deter the victim's 
gory fate. Members of the Zintra Order are trained in the art of 
ninjitsu and are selected from Kabal's most infamous criminals who 
survive the rigorous rights of passage.
  To this day, Zintra members are said to compete with each other to
see who can pull off the most outrageous heist or difficult 
assassination. It is also rumored that the Zintra can be hired to 
assassinate if the cause is deemed worthy and the bounty is 
prodigious.
                                       
                                       - Erudin, Sage of Kabal
