
And with the cataclysm, the lands of Ansalon were reshaped, new mountains arose and fell, seas rushed in, famine and plague spread across the world, and the Gods themselves fled the destruction they had wrought... And so began the Age of Darkness.

The years following the cataclysm were lost in shadows; civilizations of might feel into ruin, governments crumbled, and the nations of Krynn were devastated... all heralding the return of Takhisis, the Queen of Darkness, from her exile in the Beyond.

To Her, she summoned her children, the chromatic dragons, from their deep slumber in the remote netherlands and their lairs in the vast depths. 'Behold!' she exulted. 'The civilizations of decadence and weakness have been destroyed, and the land reformed to my liking! Now is our time, where only the mighty and ruthless shall rule in my name, a time of glory that shall soon be fearfully remembered as the Age of Dragons!'.
And with that, the land shook for the first time in centuries with the jubilant baying of dragons.
Many moments passed before the Queen of Dragons silenced them. 'My children, to you I entrust the gathering of armies. Men and ogres shall once again rally to my banner as they did in the distant past. Support them, for they will spearhead the subjugation of this land under my dark shadow!'.
With that, her Dark Majesty returned to her home in the Infernal Realms in the Abyss.

And so the shrieking hosts of the Queen of Darkness dispersed, each seeking those of like nature to lead this army of dragons:
the fiery red dragons sought out those who loved death and destruction, violence, and those who believed in the right of might; the fanatical blue dragons of the desert lands sought out the brave and passionate warriors, allies who would be as devoted to the Queen of Darkness as they were; the greens, the blacks, and the whites, sought out those who were cunning, ferocious, cruel, or those who simply lusted after the spoils that war brings.

The forges of the Lords of Doom were once again fired up as the forces of darkness marshalled, bound together by the promise of bloodshed and glory into the Dragonarmies of Krynn. And so, the prophesied Age of Dragons now approaches...

-=Scribed by Wyrllish, Priest of Takhisis, on the 17th day of Sirrimont in the year 343 after the Cataclysm=-


For more detailed information, please look in /d/Ansalon/info/GUILDS/dragonarmy/
-Arman Kharas.
